this study investigates how the facial cues of tour guides in their profile pictures, and especially aesthetically pleasing facial features, play a role in the different stages of a tourist's decision-making process. facilitated by an artificial intelligence (ai) facial recognition system, a comprehensive model is developed which incorporates the facial and service cues of 3786 tour guides. the results show that beauty scores and smiles have a positive effect on purchase decisions, while post-service ratings are only subject to service cues. the contingency effects of the beauty premium are also examined. the results indicate greater beauty premium effects for females, and for tour guides who are responsible for chauffeured, package or walking tours. this research is a pioneering study in ai-based facial analyses in the context of tourism, and offers insights into the impression management of online profiles in the customer decision-making stages.studies associated with critical analyses of entrepreneurship education (ee) highlight the predominance of literatures that focus closely on the positive aspects of entrepreneurship. this can lead to cognitive bias, resulting in students developing more favorable and even enthusiastic perceptions of entrepreneurial action. to reduce this information asymmetry, the intention of this study was to identify and classify the diversity of negative aspects resulting from unsuccessful entrepreneurial action. to this end, we applied the content analysis technique to the transcripts of interviews with former entrepreneurs and stakeholders associated with entrepreneurial action, in addition to the texts of articles from important journals of entrepreneurship and small business identified through a scope literature review. the findings indicate that unsuccessful entrepreneurial action can result in several negative effects for the entrepreneur, both subjectively (psychological and social aspects - dark side) and objectively (material aspects - downside). the study also identified several negative effects that impact other individuals and society (destructive side). the literature review and interaction with former entrepreneurs and professionals who work with entrepreneurs showed 38 negative aspects in the three dimensions known as “triple ds” (dark, destructive and downside). a taxonomy tree was developed that integrates these different types and subtypes, as well as software (https://thetripleds.com/) that makes these contents available. these resources can be used by ee professors, managers and technicians of agencies that support entrepreneurs to raise the awareness of potential entrepreneurs regarding the various risks associated with entrepreneurial action.the prevalence of platform-based business models, enabled by the advancements of digital technologies, has tremendously changed the way how individual firms innovate. this study seeks to understand the heterogeneity of innovation speed among smes acting as participant complementors in digital platform. integrating a knowledge-based view with the recent research on platform synergy, this study explores the effects of two kinds of platform synergy (i.e. synergy with platform owners, and synergy with other complementors) have on the innovation speed of smes. the results suggest that platform owners and fellow complementors would furnish different sets of information and knowledge, which are complementary in nature. in addition, smes with different organizational structure and geographic locations may benefit differently from the two kinds of platform synergy. our synergy-based explanations make an important theoretical contribution to the growing literature on platform ecosystem from a complementor’s perspective.cultural intelligence (cq) is an increasingly valuable asset for managers, employees, entrepreneurs, and their organizations. while there is now considerable evidence for its benefits, knowledge remains cloudy surrounding its antecedents. drawing on identity theory, we develop a model unpacking the relationship between cross-cultural experience—a core antecedent with mixed findings in extant research—and cq. we advance multicultural identity as a pivotal intervening variable and probe the role of self-verification striving as an identity-based boundary condition. across two interlocking studies, we find evidence for how cq can be cultivated from a range of increasingly common forms of cross-cultural experiences. in doing so, we shed light on the mixed results in prior research and provide key implications for future research; namely, multicultural identity helps to better account for when and how individuals translate their cross-cultural experiences into cq.applicant reactions to selection procedures have attracted much scholarly attention in the work and organizational psychology literature over the past three decades. while this body of literature is quite robust, scholarly research into applicant reactions to social media assessment more specifically is sparse. in this article, we develop a comprehensive theoretical framework to better understand applicant reactions to social media assessment. we explicate the process by which various individual, organizational, and labor market antecedents elicit different reactions from job applicants and the resulting behavioral consequences. we argue that sm assessments are very different from traditional assessments and thus require a new theoretical framework that is context specific to capture applicant reactions, and in so doing, add value to extant reactions frameworks. our theorizing advances the applicant reactions literature by providing an expanded view of the significant role of social media in the hiring process and how applicants are likely to respond to this new assessment tool. drawing on this conceptual framework, we offer propositions and discuss the implications for research and practice.algorithmic bias indicates the discrimination caused by algorithms, which occurs with protected features such as gender and race. many researchers have tried to define the fairness and devise methods to mitigate bias, but it is still premature to reach the unanimous definition and evaluation metrics of fairness according to society, times and cultures. in this paper, we introduce three evaluation metrics such as parity difference, equalized opportunity and equalized odds that can deal with various definitions of algorithmic bias, and concretely divide the three general approaches further into seven methods with some challenges, resulting in relabeling, generation, fair representation (for pre-processing), constraint optimization, regularization (for in-processing), calibration and thresholding (for post-processing). among them, the pre-processing method is widely used due to its versatility, but it has limitation to deal with the information on data and features related with bias appropriately. in order to preserve the characteristics of the original data while excluding the information about the features causing bias, we propose a preprocessing approach based on information theory that avoids collision in the dual optimization, where the latent space is divided into two subspaces. experiments are conducted with the well-known benchmark datasets of census and compas, and two real-world tasks: facial emotion recognition and text sentiment analysis. the information theoretic approach is promising to achieve fair machine learning by reducing the bias caused by several features such as age, race and gender.we examine both mediation and moderation effects on the direct relationship between internationalization speed and firm performance in the context of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). building on prior studies that focus either on the direct speed–performance linkage or the moderating role played by knowledge, we suggest that an important source of performance variations is organizational learning. grounded in the organizational learning perspective, we argue that firm strategies regarding speed and earliness of internationalization provide the smes with opportunities to develop their absorptive capacity, and thus enhance their performance. using survey data from 343 smes in australia and new zealand, our empirical results suggest that absorptive capacity is associated with internationalization speed in a reversed u-shape relationship and that in turn absorptive capacity mediates the direct speed–performance relationship. moreover, this mediating effect is moderated by earliness of internationalization. by demonstrating the moderated mediating effect of absorptive capacity as a novel mechanism to achieving superior performance, we enhance the understanding of how firms succeed internationally.today, humans interact with automation frequently and in a variety of settings ranging from private to professional. their behavior in these interactions has attracted considerable research interest across several fields, with sometimes little exchange among them and seemingly inconsistent findings. in this article, we review 138 experimental studies on how people interact with automated agents, that can assume different roles. we synthesize the evidence, suggest ways to reconcile inconsistencies between studies and disciplines, and discuss organizational and societal implications. the reviewed studies show that people react to automated agents differently than they do to humans: in general, they behave more rationally, and seem less prone to emotional and social responses, though this may be mediated by the agents’ design. task context, performance expectations and the distribution of decision authority between humans and automated agents are all factors that systematically impact the willingness to accept automated agents in decision-making - that is, humans seem willing to (over-)rely on algorithmic support, yet averse to fully ceding their decision authority. the impact of these behavioral regularities for the deliberation of the benefits and risks of automation in organizations and society is discussed.we extend the performance literature by moving beyond a focus on antecedents of employees' job performance. rather, we consider the effects of employees' high performance on their subsequent psychological states and behaviors. we adopt a social exchange approach to explain why powerful, high-performing employees may feel psychologically entitled (i.e., a belief that they are owed more than what is typical from the organization), which then prevents them from engaging in organizational citizenship behaviors (i.e., discretionary behaviors that contribute to the effective functioning of the organization). we first establish internal validity by testing our theoretical model using an experimental study design. we then establish external validity by testing our theoretical model using multi-source field data from university employees in the united states. both studies provide support for our theoretical model in that psychological entitlement mediates the negative indirect relationship between employees' performance and ocb when employee power is higher versus lower. theoretical and practical implications are discussed.in selection decisions, decision makers often struggle to ignore irrelevant information, such as candidates' age, gender and attractiveness, which can lead to suboptimal decisions. one way to correct the effects of these irrelevant attributes is to consider them as suppressor variables, and penalize individuals who unjustifiably benefit from them. previous research demonstrated that people have difficulties doing so. in five experiments (n = 1325), we examined the mechanism at the core of people's ability to do so. we found that triggering system 2 did not improve participants' ability to correct for this bias. the majority of those who were successful did so even when denied the opportunity to deliberate. we suggest that logic intuition—not deliberation—is the basis for successfully considering irrelevant information as suppressors. our results are in line with a revised dual-process approach, in which solving reasoning problems can occur directly through system 1 and does not require an override by a system 2's-based process.this exploratory study explores perceptions of artificial intelligence (ai) and organizational readiness to adopt ai, in the exhibition sector of the events industry. a theoretical framework synthesizing the technology - organization - environment framework and the technology readiness index was developed to guide this qualitative study. seventeen senior managerial representatives from exhibition organizations across nine western european countries were interviewed, and a reflexive thematic approach was adopted to analyse the data. the findings suggest that the european exhibition industry is a slow adopter of ai, which may impact its future competitiveness, despite the stimulus provided to ai adoption during the covid-19 pandemic. the degree of confidence in organizational technological practices, financial resources, the size of the organization, and issues of data management and protection, as well as the impacts of the covid-19 pandemic, motivate or inhibit readiness for ai adoption in the event industry. a new exhibition sector readiness for ai adoption model is presented in this research that managers and researchers can use to analyze inhibitors and motivations for ai adoption, which is contextualized for the current challenges facing the exhibitions sector.we use detailed assessments of ceo personalities to explore the nature of ceo overconfidence as it is commonly measured. longholder, the option-based measure of ceo overconfidence introduced by malmendier and tate (2005a) and widely used in the behavioral corporate finance and economics literatures, is significantly related to several specific characteristics that are associated with overconfident individuals as well as individuals with lower ability. similar relations hold for overconfidence measures based on ceos’ earnings guidance. investment-cash flow sensitivities are larger for both longholder and less able ceos. after controlling for ability and other characteristics, longholder ceos’ investments remain significantly more sensitive to cash flows. these results suggest that overconfidence, as measured by longholder, is correlated with lower ability but still reflects empirically distinct aspects of overconfidence.the increasing digitization and datification of all aspects of people’s daily life, and the consequent growth in the use of personal data, are increasingly challenging the current development and adoption of machine learning (ml). first, the sheer complexity and amount of data available in these applications strongly demands for ml algorithms that can be trained directly on complex structures, which can be naturally described by graphs. in fact, graphs inherently capture information about entities, their attributes, and relationships between them. directly applying ml to graphs relieves domain experts and data scientists from the challenging and time-consuming problem of designing a suitable vector-based data representation used by classical ml techniques. second, ml algorithms should not only be designed to achieve high technical and functional standards; as the automated decisions provided by these algorithms can have a relevant impact on people’s lives, their behavior has to be aligned with the values and principles of individuals and society. this demands for designing automated algorithms that we, as humans, can trust, fulfilling the requirements of fairness, robustness, privacy, and explainability. third, designing effective ml algorithms requires skills and expertise developed at different levels. this substantially hinders the democratization and widespread availability of such technology for society at large, which in turn demands for improving the level of automatization and systematization of their design process, while also providing guarantees on their performance. for this reason, this paper provides an overview of the current works focused towards learning trustworthily, automatically, and with guarantees on graphs.wealth, power, and status are distributed unevenly across social groups. a surge of recent research reveals that people being recognizing, representing, and reasoning about group-based patterns of inequity during the first years of life. we first synthesize recent research on what children learn about group-based social hierarchies as well as how this learning occurs. we then discuss how children not only learn about societal structures but become active participants in them. studying the origins and development of children’s thoughts and behavior regarding group-based social hierarchies provides valuable insight into how systems of inequity are perpetuated across generations and how intergroup biases related to wealth, power, and status may be mitigated and reshaped early in development.during new venture creation, entrepreneurs make decisions in a variety of areas from seeking funding to hiring employees. when and why entrepreneurs use effectual or causal logics to make such decisions is poorly understood. in this study, we integrate ecological rationality theory and effectuation theory to examine how the nature of decisions influences entrepreneurs' use of decision logics. in a qualitative study with 41 entrepreneurs across 290 decisions, we explore how decision content (what the decision is about) and decision structure (what information about a decision is represented in the decision-maker's mind) influence entrepreneurs' use of effectual or causal logics. we extend our findings in an experiment with 224 entrepreneurs where we manipulate decision structure. our results suggest that decision content influences entrepreneurs' mental representations of decision structure. in turn, the combination of two elements of decision structure — decision complexity and the perceived costs of implementing different options — drives entrepreneurs' use of decision logics. we contribute to the effectuation literature by integrating it with ecological rationality theory, introducing the concept of decision fit as a driver of decision logics, and developing our understanding of hybrid decision-making (the simultaneous use of effectuation and causation).prior research illustrates that incumbent firms commonly react to a rival’s market entry by adjusting their marketing mix elements. incumbents either adjust only one element – adopting a “focused” strategy – or adjust several elements simultaneously– adopting a “combinative” strategy. while previous studies have extensively investigated the incumbents’ marketing mix reactions to a market entry, no study has explored the defensive response strategy, and its consequences have yet to be empirically examined. drawing upon signaling theory and using a multi-market dataset in the u.s. airline industry, the authors find that, compared to a combinative strategy, adopting a focused response strategy in response to a rival’s entry does shorten the new entrant’s exit timing. however, when incumbents possess high resource and capabilities, this performance gap between the two response strategies is reduced. the authors discuss the contributions to the strategy and management literature and provide actionable insights to managers and policymakers.beauty can increase people's self-confidence and offer premium benefits in social activities. unlike natural appearance, beauty on the internet depends greatly on people's ideal selves. different from previous research, this study investigated the relationship between profile image's facial beauty and online reviews. based on 25,322 face detection results, our findings showed that people's behaviors corresponded to their created beautiful self-image, which resulted in posting negative and detailed online reviews. moreover, beauty diminished the inhibiting effect caused by clear facial disclosure. our results enrich the understanding of online beauty, self-presentation, self-disclosure, and rating bias in online shopping platforms. the practical implications for online platforms are also discussed.scholarship on strategic leadership has undergone considerable advancement in the 40 years since the introduction of upper echelon theory (uet). in this special issue we engage with the state-of-the-art in the field and categorize the manuscripts along a new typology of what constitutes the dominant coalition in the firm. from traditional models focusing on ‘ceo-only’ or ‘tmt as a group’ we discuss the current range of conceptualizations that exist of the dominant coalition and discuss benefits and drawbacks of each approach. in particular we observe a tendency of scholars to be more inclusive of specific actors, e.g. functional specialists of the tmt, and a natural broadening of the actors thought to be part of, or strongly supporting, the dominant coalition of the firm. this special issue offers guidelines on how to frame scholarship in the strategic leadership tradition going forward and presents an effort to strengthen coherence and clarity in the field.design of advertising stimuli is critical for marketing, especially to destinations which have limited exposure to visitors. existing studies postulate the design of advertising affects the amount and valence of thoughts (cognition), thought confidence (metacognition) and attitudes towards a destination. despite this, limited research has considered the influence of emotional arousal and perceived credibility of advertising on cognition, metacognition and attitude. this research implemented a two-by-two experimental design to examine how cognition, metacognition and attitude differ across different levels of emotional arousal and perceived credibility of an advertisement of iran. results demonstrate participants showed higher cognitive engagement with the advertisement and more thought confidence and developed more favourable thinking and attitude to iran in response to a highly credible and emotionally arousing tourism stimulus. a key contribution of this research is that high emotional arousal evokes more favourable cognition, metacognition and attitude towards a destination.this study examines the influence of covid-19 event strength on the turnover intention of hotel employees by incorporating perceived operating performance and job insecurity as mediators and hotel size as a moderator. a moderated mediation model was employed to test the relationship between covid-19 event strength and turnover intention. the study reveals that covid-19 event strength might not significantly affect turnover intention through perceived operating performance, likely affecting job insecurity perception. we infer that such a finding might result from a series of policies implemented by authorities to prevent job insecurity perception of hotel employees during the covid-19 pandemic. furthermore, we also reveal that small- and middle-sized hotels mitigate the effect of job insecurity on turnover intention somewhat different from our expectations. we infer that most of the entrepreneurs and employees in such hotels are from the same town and unlikely to intensify the effect of job insecurity on turnover intention because of close friendships among them. this finding is closely related to cultural factors in china and has rarely been discussed in the existing literature.this study examines whether directors' and officers' (d&o) insurance affects corporate employment decision-making. using a 2006–2018 sample of chinese public firms, we find that firms purchasing d&o insurance exhibit lower labor investment efficiency, reflected mainly in over-hiring. the findings are strengthened by a set of additional robustness tests to mitigate endogeneity concerns and selection bias. the negative relation between d&o insurance and labor investment efficiency is more pronounced in firms with weak corporate governance, a low proportion of female executives, high labor intensity and low legal risks. further analysis suggests that inefficient labor investment leads to worse future firm performance. this study provides the first empirical evidence that d&o insurance increases managerial empire building tendencies via over-investment in labor, which, in turn, is detrimental to shareholder value.the global decline in wild fish has given impetus to the rapid growth of seafood produced by aquaculture, as well as of farmed fish (ff). although product knowledge is directly linked to fish consumption, continuous asymmetric information leads to consumer ambiguity and confusion regarding their knowledge of farmed fish. however, ambiguity tolerance (at) and confusion avoidance (ca) as personal and relevant socio-economic factors positively affect fish consumption. despite such potential of these factors, little research has investigated if the personal and socio-economic factors are associated with consumers' value perception of ff knowledge. therefore, this study analyses the effects of at, ca and socio-economic factors on consumers’ acquisition of knowledge of farmed fish. a total sample of 1041 households from the two major bangladeshi urban areas of dhaka and chittagong were interviewed using a structured questionnaire. the data were analysed employing exploratory factor analysis and the ordered probit regression model. the findings reveal that at affects ff knowledge positively and significantly but that ca does not. individuals with a high level of fish consumption and who do their fish shopping personally are more likely to gather ff knowledge. however, those who buy fish from the supermarket and are members of an environmental organisation are not interested in doing so. the findings also lead to significant managerial implications for improving ways to develop substantial factors to increase ff knowledge and the consumption of such fish, which will benefit consumers and the aquaculture industry.this research examines the perceived fairness of two types of job interviews: robot-mediated and face-to-face interviews. the robot-mediated interview tests the concept of a fair proxy in the shape of a teleoperated social robot. in study 1, a mini-public (n=53) revealed four factors that influence fairness perceptions of the robot-mediated interview and showed how hr professionals’ perception of fair personnel selection is influenced by moral pragmatism despite clear moral awareness of discriminative biases in interviews. in study 2, an experimental survey (n=242) conducted at an unemployment center showed that the respondents perceived the robot-mediated interview as fairer than the face-to-face interview. overall, the studies suggest that hr professionals and jobseekers exhibit diverging fairness perceptions and that the business case for the robot-mediated interview undermines its social case (i.e., reducing discrimination). the paper concludes by addressing key implications and avenues for future research.the manufacturing location decision is inherently complex, resulting in supply chain tradeoffs between high-cost and low-cost manufacturing locations. optimizing this decision can result in a firm's ability to be more profitable. using the eclectic theory of international production, we use a short-term event study to investigate the impact on shareholder wealth after firms announce their manufacturing location decision. our study uses 329 manufacturing location announcements and offers a comparative analysis to investigate the stock price impact for u.s. firms (n = 100) and foreign firms (n = 229) reshoring, relocating, or expanding manufacturing operations in the u.s. we find that there is a significantly more positive abnormal stock market return when u.s. firms announce the u.s. as a manufacturing location compared to when foreign firms make similar announcements. in addition, we offer specific conditions under which u.s. and foreign returns will be higher or lower than average, providing insight for managers, investors, and legislators.dairy product consumption is motivated by both familiarity and habit. milk consumption decreases with age, but milk consumption during childhood and adolescence increases the chances of lifetime milk consumption. understanding how parents perceive dairy milk and other dairy foods further enables development of dairy-positive messaging that aligns with their perceptions. the objective of this research was to understand parent belief systems around fluid dairy milk and plant-based alternatives (pba). this goal was accomplished by assessing parents' implicit attitudes toward dairy milk and pba with an implicit bias exercise (n = 331), followed by qualitative interviews to understand explicitly stated purchase motivations and guided recall of information heard about dairy milk and pba to better understand external influences on milk perception (n = 88). the majority of parents (73.4%) implicitly associated dairy milk with positive attributes compared with those with a positive association with pba (13.8%) or with a neutral bias (12.7%). the stronger a parent's implicit bias toward pba, the more likely they were to purchase these products either alongside or as a replacement for dairy milk. eighty-five percent of parents in our study could recall drinking milk at home as a child, and 58% remembered encouragement from their parents to drink milk. however, only 38% encouraged their own children to drink milk (the majority, 55%, were neutral toward their children's milk consumption). generally negative media messaging toward dairy milk and positive messaging toward pba may contribute to this trend, even if consumers are not explicitly aware of their perception changes. seventy-seven percent of parents felt generally confident in choosing dairy milk or pba for their children. however, only 26% of parents felt that nothing about dairy milk or pba information or messaging was confusing. sources of uncertainty about dairy milk included hormones and antibiotics, animal welfare, ecological sustainability, potential contamination, and intolerances or allergies. by addressing the most commonly encountered and recalled concerns about milk from parents, dairy producers may be able to increase trust and implicit bias toward dairy milk compared with pba.many retirees are seeking to return to work after retirement. in light of growing unretirement, we explore the linkages between unretirement decisions and individuals’ skill-specific automatability, i.e., the degree to which machines can replace their skills. the automatability is measured by how routinized individuals’ skills are and how little non-routine analytical adaptability, non-routine social intelligence, non-routine physical adaptability, and non-routine interpersonal adaptability their skills encompass. using data from the 2000–2016 health and retirement study, we find that retirees whose skills are more automatable are less likely than others to return to work. among unretirees, those whose skills are more automatable tend to be hired into jobs whose task-contents are also more automatable. this work provides empirical evidence that retirees’ high automatability poses work disincentives and discourages productive aging.patients are usually sensitive to physicians' attitude and behavior when physicians make decisions in patients' consultations. however, the consequences of physicians' interactive voices on patients' perception have rarely been explored. this study develops a multistage online interaction model to explore the effects of the key vocal emotional cues of physician voice on patient-perceived satisfaction. we collect data of over 44,000 voice interactions regarding lung disease from 889 physicians on a leading online health platform. by using the theoretical lens of emotional contagion, we find that the voice pitch and intensity of physicians, respectively, positively and negatively affect patient-perceived satisfaction, in turn positively affecting physician economic returns in the postinteraction stage. however, the negative effect of intensity is low for physicians with high recommendation popularity (a factor in the preinteraction stage), suggesting that physician-inherent information has an anchoring effect. these findings not only provide new insights into the literature on online physician–patient interaction by identifying the novel nonverbal cues of physician voice, their consequent effects, and boundary conditions, but also provide decision support for physicians and platform managers.do female ceos reduce gender-pay disparities in top management teams (tmts)? some scholars draw on social identity theory to argue that, as individuals tend to identify with and support their in-groups, appointing a female corporate leader (i.e., ceo) will mitigate the gender-pay gap among executives. yet, others draw on the queen-bee syndrome to postulate that some female ceos may rather strengthen gender-pay disparities in upper echelons – by favoring out-groups (male) more than their in-groups (female). we bring together these opposing theoretical arguments to develop a ‘beyond ceo gender’ perspective, arguing that the effects of ceo gender on tmt gender-pay disparities should be considered in conjunction with the corporate leaders' values – as reflected by their political ideology. our research demonstrates that conservative-female ceos compensate female (versus male) executives lower compared to all other ceo gender-ideology categories (i.e., female-liberal ceos, male-liberal ceos, and male-conservative ceos). overall, our work contributes to theory on the ceo-tmt interface by highlighting the role of the ceo as the ‘architect’ of executive remuneration.cultural minorities often suffer from ethnic discrimination in recruitment. to measure ethnic discrimination accurately, researchers have shifted from interviews, survey studies, and statistical salary comparisons to resume studies. to conduct a resume study, researchers send out similar, paired resumes in response to job advertisements and vary the names to indicate a membership to different ethnic groups. previous resume studies have found that ethnic discrimination in recruitment is a common problem across different countries. however, previous research reported large discrimination differences across studies. not much is known about boundary conditions and moderators of ethnic discrimination in recruitment. to create the theoretical basis for future research, we expand on previous research and reviews by elucidating when ethnic discrimination is likely to occur and how it can be reduced. we also provide insight into how resume study research can contribute to identifying the causes and mechanisms of ethnic discrimination. for this purpose, we develop a contingency perspective based on a literature review and explain how ethnic discrimination depends on the characteristics of the: 1) applicant, 2) job, 3) recruiter, 4) hiring organization, 5) country, and 6) ethnic group. further, we explain that ethnic discrimination can be reduced by using anonymous resumes, adding information on job applicants, “whitening” resumes, including volunteer work in resumes, and conducting intervention studies. lastly, we provide a rich agenda, and present thought-provoking topics for future research.technological advances are enabling roles for machines that present novel ethical challenges. the study of 'ai ethics' has emerged to confront these challenges, and connects perspectives from philosophy, computer science, law, and economics. less represented in these interdisciplinary efforts is the perspective of cognitive science. we propose a framework – computational ethics – that specifies how the ethical challenges of ai can be partially addressed by incorporating the study of human moral decision-making. the driver of this framework is a computational version of reflective equilibrium (re), an approach that seeks coherence between considered judgments and governing principles. the framework has two goals: (i) to inform the engineering of ethical ai systems, and (ii) to characterize human moral judgment and decision-making in computational terms. working jointly towards these two goals will create the opportunity to integrate diverse research questions, bring together multiple academic communities, uncover new interdisciplinary research topics, and shed light on centuries-old philosophical questions.this paper combines two new summer youth employment experiments in chicago and philadelphia with previously published evidence to show how repeated study of an intervention as it scales and changes contexts can guide decisions about public investment. two sources of treatment heterogeneity can undermine the scale-up and replication of successful human capital interventions: variation in the treatment itself and in individual responsiveness. results show that these programs generate consistently large proportional decreases in criminal justice involvement, even as administrators recruit additional youth, hire new local providers, find more job placements, and vary the content of their programs. using both endogeneous stratification within cities and variation in 62 new and existing point estimates across cities uncovers a key pattern of individual responsiveness: impacts grow linearly with the risk of socially costly behavior each person faces. identifying more interventions that combine this pattern of robustness to treatment variation with bigger effects for the most disconnected could aid efforts to reduce social inequality efficiently.across four studies (n = 1689), this research contributes to an empirical understanding of the relationship between class-related attitudes and perceived work ethic. we tested contexts in which counterstereotypical cues of low socioeconomic status (ses) and white targets lead to more positive evaluations. in study 1, participants judged a low-ses candidate in a job hiring scenario as warmer and more competent than a high-ses candidate. a follow-up study found that trait words related to work ethic were salient in the hiring context, and particularly associated with this low-ses candidate. study 2 orthogonally manipulated both income and perceptions of work ethic, with the work ethic manipulation impacting participant evaluations of both low- and high-income targets. study 3 investigated a scenario in which no information on work ethic was provided. in study 4, a counterstereotypical low-income target (described as goal-oriented and studious) was evaluated as more hardworking than the average low-income person, average person on welfare, and average homeless person. together, these results demonstrate that it is possible for a subtype of the “hardworking poor” to override more general stereotypes of low-ses targets as lazy or incompetent. this research suggests that interpersonal judgments based on ses are highly sensitive to work ethic cues. additionally, we highlight the need for future research to further investigate experimental manipulations of social class and constructs related to work ethic, including dispositional and situational attributions.we perform the first tests of individual-level preferences for “blinding” in decision making: purposefully restricting the information one sees in order to form a more objective evaluation. for example, when grading her students’ papers, a professor might choose to “blind” herself to students’ names by anonymizing them, thus evaluating the papers on content alone. we predict that curiosity will shape blinding preferences, motivating people to seek out (vs. be blind to) irrelevant, potentially biasing information about a target of evaluation. we further predict that decision frames that reduce or satisfy curiosity about potentially biasing information will encourage choices to be blind to that information. we find support for these hypotheses across seven studies (n = 4,356) and multiple replications (n = 9,570), demonstrating consequences for bias and accuracy across a variety of evaluation contexts. we discuss implications for research on mental contamination as well as the “dark side” of curiosity.this study reports on a contextualized speaker evaluation experiment exploring the effects of language variation (standard vs. colloquial varieties), ethnic identity (flemish vs. maghrebi) and wearing a headscarf on students’ evaluation of a female university instructor in flanders. 314 participants evaluated a single lecture of the instructor on professionalism, comprehensibility, authority, standardness, social attractiveness and physical attractiveness. the results suggest that when measured indirectly, colloquial dutch is no less acceptable than standard dutch in higher education. no general downgrading of the maghrebi identity was observed. when wearing a headscarf, the standard-speaking maghrebi instructor was upgraded for professionalism.over the last decade, the importance of machine learning increased dramatically in business and marketing. however, when machine learning is used for decision-making, bias rooted in unrepresentative datasets, inadequate models, weak algorithm designs, or human stereotypes can lead to low performance and unfair decisions, resulting in financial, social, and reputational losses. this paper offers a systematic, interdisciplinary literature review of machine learning biases as well as methods to avoid and mitigate these biases. we identified eight distinct machine learning biases, summarized these biases in the cross-industry standard process for data mining to account for all phases of machine learning projects, and outline twenty-four mitigation methods. we further contextualize these biases in a real-world case study and illustrate adequate mitigation strategies. these insights synthesize the literature on machine learning biases in a concise manner and point to the importance of human judgment for machine learning algorithms.faces play a central role in person perception. people spontaneously judge others' personality based on their facial appearance and these impressions guide many consequential decisions. when do people rely on facial appearance? in five studies (n = 1936, four preregistered), we test whether reliance on facial appearance depends on the goal of impression formation (i.e., on which trait dimension targets are evaluated). trait impressions are, to a large extent, based on the resemblance of facial cues to emotional expressions. as emotional expressiveness is a central component of sociability, we hypothesized that people would more readily perceive sociability in faces. we find that facial appearance is seen as more indicative of a person's sociability than their morality or competence (study 1, n = 338), and this was particularly true for sociability traits that are characterized by emotional expressions (e.g., enthusiasm, playfulness; study 2, n = 162). we find the same pattern when examining the influence of facial cues on judgment and decision-making. people are more confident in the accuracy of their trait impressions when judging sociability (study 3, n = 527), they value information on the facial appearance of job candidates more when looking for a sociable employee (study 4, n = 390), and they view reliance on facial appearance when making hiring decisions as more appropriate and more effective when looking for a sociable employee (study 5, n = 519). together, our results provide converging evidence that people view facial appearance as especially relevant for judging a person's sociability.the mobility of inventors leaves behind their patented inventions at sourcing firms, yet there is little scholarly insight into how firms handle those intellectual properties. we investigate this important issue by developing a framework of tacit-codified knowledge interdependence. we theorize that tacit and codified knowledge offer the intellectual and legal pillars of corporate inventions, which complement each other in value creation. inventor mobility decouples the two pillars and reduces the maintenance likelihood of the left-behind patents. the negative impact is greater for inventions that are complex or rely less on internal prior art because the tacit knowledge loss is more destructive and unrecoverable. however, when inventors move to competing or litigious target firms, the relationship between mobility and patent maintenance becomes less negative or even turns positive because the left-behind patents can be leveraged to hedge against the risk of knowledge leakage. applying a two-stage coarsened exact matching approach to construct a sample of 36,204 u.s. patents with comparable leaving and staying inventors from public firms between 1983 and 2010, we find strong evidence supporting our framework. our findings highlight the intricate interdependence of tacit and codified knowledge in corporate inventions and add to the literatures on inventor mobility and intellectual property management.development of adaptive aids to support human performance in complex systems is a cornerstone of human factors. research in this area has led to a diversity of ideas regarding potential activation methods. however, little guidance has been provided on how to select among aid activation methods, and this lack of guidance could hinder adaptive aid development and deployment. within the current paper, we review available methods of aid activation and describe a process for developing and validating adaptive aiding systems. we focus on supporting system designers who wish to select the ideal aid activation method for an intended application. the process that we recommend is an empirical approach to evaluate the feasibility, costs, and benefits of various potential methods of aid activation. this methodological framework will support practitioners making critical decisions about the design of aiding systems.large racial disparities plague discipline in schools across the united states which contributes to racial disparities in life outcomes such as education attainment and incarceration. the present research investigates the role a student's reputation – as shared from one teacher to another one – plays in the discipline context. teachers (n = 192) read about two incidents of misbehavior and reported the severity of discipline the student should receive and the likelihood that they would label the student as a “troublemaker.” they were randomly assigned to read about a black or white student and to hear from a fellow teacher that the student had a good or bad reputation. analyses revealed a three-way interaction such that a good reputation buffers against an escalation in discipline severity for a white, but not black, student. a white student with a bad, as compared to good reputation, received a meaningful escalation in discipline, was more likely to be labeled a troublemaker, and was deemed more likely to get suspended in the future. meanwhile, reputation was somewhat inconsequential for a black student. the current research advances theory on the implication of racial bias in context and informs policy for how information is shared among teachers.while many organizations' hiring practices now incorporate artificial intelligence (ai) and machine learning (ml), research suggests that job applicants may react negatively toward ai/ml-based selection practices. in the current research, we thus examined how organizations might mitigate adverse reactions toward ai/ml-based selection processes. in two between-subjects experiments, we recruited online samples of participants (undergraduate students and prolific panelists, respectively) and presented them with vignettes representing various selection systems and measured participants' reactions to them. in study 1, we manipulated (a) whether the system was managed by a human decision-maker, by ai/ml, or a combination of both (an “augmented” approach), and (b) the selection stage (screening, final stage). results indicated that participants generally reacted more favorably toward augmented and human-based approaches, relative to ai/ml-based approaches, and further depended on participants' pre-existing familiarity levels with ai. in study 2, we sought to replicate our findings within a specific process (selecting hotel managers) and application method (handling interview recordings). we found again that reactions toward the augmented approach generally depended on participants’ familiarity levels with ai. our findings have implications for how (and for whom) organizations should implement ai/ml-based practices.unit prices are a ubiquitous phenomenon. the respective legal norms leave a certain freedom of choice with regard to the reference unit. however, research on the impact of alternative measurement units on consumer behaviour is still in its infancy and its findings are inconclusive. moreover, this influence has so far only been measured directly. investigating the product category bottled beer (with its essential product attributes ‘brand’, ‘price’, ‘alcohol content’ and ‘size of packaging unit’), a choice based conjoint experiment provides empirical evidence that a large (per 1 l) compared to a small (per 100 ml) size unit of measurement leads to a significant shift of importance towards the product attribute ‘price’ at the expense of the ‘brand’. in addition, consumers react more sensitively to price changes. at the strategic level, retailers can use these insights to sharpen their positioning through a suitable unit price measure. when making operational decisions, retailers should bear in mind that the reference unit influences the likelihood of purchase, the scope for price increases and the opportunities for up-selling.among the countries of the organization for economic co-operation and development, south korea shows the worst female earnings disadvantage. women's career disruption associated with marriage and childbearing is said to be the primary factor behind the huge female disadvantage in korea. recent studies, however, demonstrated that substantial female disadvantage appears prior to women's career disruption, even net of human capital covariates. in this study, we examine whether taste-based gender discrimination is a source of female earnings disadvantage. we use sex ratios of births across regions during the 1990s as a proxy of prejudice against women in current labor markets. our empirical results show that female earnings disadvantages among 2009–2017 college graduates are larger in the regions where sex ratios of 1990–1999 newborns were higher. our results are robust to the control of an extensive set of human capital variables, including concrete college names, detailed fields of study, high school types, and more. depending on models, one-fourth to one-third of female earnings disadvantage is attributable to prejudice against women. implications of these findings are discussed.discrimination against minorities is pervasive in many societies, but little is known about strategies that minorities apply to minimize discrimination. in our trust game with 758 high-school students in the country of georgia, ethnic georgian trustors discriminate against the ethnic armenian minority group. we introduce an initial signaling stage to investigate armenians’ willingness to hide their ethnicity to avoid expected discrimination. 43 percent of armenian trustees untruthfully signal that they have a georgian name. signaling behavior is driven by expected transfers and identity-based motives. this strategic misrepresentation of ethnicity increases georgian trustors’ expected back transfers and eliminates their discriminatory behavior.the purpose of this study is to investigate the mediating role of green human resource management (ghrm) and environmental consciousness (ec) between organizational green culture (ogc) and green employee behavior (geb). the study also aims to examine within the boundaries of this relationship mechanism whether the situation is different in green hotels and non-green hotels. the present research uses the explanatory sequential mixed-methods design. quantitative research shows that ogc has an impact on ghrm practices and ec but has no impact on geb. in the present study, the study of kim et al. (2019) was utilized to measure ghrm, the study of wang (2019) to measure ogc, the studies of robertson and barling (2013), safari et al. (2018) and wells, taheri, gregory-smith & manika (2016) to measure geb and the study of huang et al. (2014) to measure ec. data from 307 employees working at five-star hotels in antalya were analyzed using pls-sem. 14 managers were interviewed for the qualitative data and the data were divided under relevant themes. qualitative research offers several important findings. first, ghrm practices are not implemented effectively in the hotels, and ghrm practices are considered as a cost-increasing element. second, the process of obtaining a green star is considered as a test and formality for green-star hotels, so green-star practices remain on paper. third, the green star is used as a marketing tool rather than being an incentive promoting environmental practices. as a result, the present study puts forth a final theoretical model based on quantitative and qualitative findings.ai decisions are increasingly determining our everyday lives. at present, european anti-discrimination law is process-oriented; it prohibits the inclusion of sensitive data that is particularly protected. however, especially in the context of ai decisions, constellations can be identified in which the inclusion of sensitive characteristics will lead to better and sometimes even less discriminatory result. a result-oriented approach, therefore, might be a more fitting strategy for algorithmic decision making.
                  in this paper we examine the legal framework for including sensitive features in a support vector machine for a fictitious scenario and discuss the resulting challenges in practical application. it turns out that generally ignoring sensitive features - as has been the practice up to now - does not seem to be a fitting strategy for algorithmic decision making. a process-oriented procedure only supposedly comes closer to individual case justice: if one assumes that fewer errors occur when protected characteristics are included, individuals will ultimately also be assessed incorrectly less often, especially when one protected group is more prone to errors than the other.
                  this paper aims to support the current debate about legal regulation of algorithmic decision making systems by discussing an often neglected perspective.the paper considers profit-maximizing (or private) firms and socially-concerned (or public) firms that compete against each other on both prices and quality. in this setting, we study how product market competition affects firms' decision to hire altruistic or selfish employees. we show that public firms will always hire altruistic employees, whereas private firms will hire selfish employees only if (i) products are sufficiently differentiated and (ii) they compete against public firms. lastly, we determine which market configuration is associated with the highest quality and the overall customers’ utility. we find that mixed duopoly is more likely to be preferred when product market competition is tougher.the role congruity theory and research on gender stereotypes suggest that communion and agency tendencies explain gender discrimination in performance evaluations. we propose that high agreeableness, a big five personality trait, captures the communal dimension of an individual’s concern for others. across two studies conducted in india and the united states, we found evidence that the relationship between agreeableness and performance evaluations is nonlinear for female employees. women are rated as high performers when they exhibit moderate levels of agreeableness. for male employees, we find a communal bonus effect in which they benefit from being agreeable in the workplace. our findings demonstrate the stability of these findings across indian and north american cultures. our findings contribute to the literature on role congruity, personality theories, and job performance.this paper presents a model where wage differences between men and women arise from taste-based discrimination, monopsonistic mechanisms and gender differences in compensating wage differentials. we show how preferences against women affect heterogeneity in firms’ pay policies in the context of an imperfect labour market with non-wage amenities, deriving a test for the presence of taste-based discrimination and of compensating wage differentials. these results inform an analysis of sex pay differences in the italian manufacturing sector, which shows that preferences for workplaces providing more flexible schedules are a significant determinant of the gender wage gap. taste-based discrimination mechanisms appear to be significant as well, but small in size.in the most prestigious journals of many disciplines, female researchers are underrepresented. to better understand this phenomenon, we compare the proportions of female authors in all leading management and organization studies (mos) journals, explore underlying gendered publication patterns, and analyze factors explaining differences between journals. we examine the gendered distribution of authorship in these journals using a complete, original time series. the comprehensive data set includes all articles published in fourteen leading journals in the mos field, comprising 77,472 cases (authors) and 43,673 articles. the findings show that women have been underrepresented in all leading mos journals until now. however, our findings reveal significant differences between journals, with some journals lagging far behind their peers. we ask why some journals score much higher than others and show that gendered authorship constellations and research topic specialization consistently explain female representation differences between journals. more specifically, we find a dominance of ‘men's clubs’ when it comes to authorship constellations and thriving ‘male islands’ when it comes to research topics. in contrast, ‘women's clubs’ are far less prevalent and no ‘female island’ exists. interestingly, female authorship and ‘shared islands’ play a particularly powerful role in narrowing the gender gap in leading journals. our results provide a benchmark for female representation across leading journals and allow for the formulation of concrete research policy goals and directions for change.we explain how home-grown political ties of chinese firms negatively influence the effect of outward foreign direct investment (ofdi) on the innovation performance of their parent firms. our results show that these ties can turn into a liability in the host countries (particularly developed ones) due to their misfit with the local institutional environment, hampering the parent firms’ innovation performance from ofdi. we also clarify how absorptive capacity of the parent firm mediates the relationship between ofdi and innovation performance. our study furthers understanding of the link between internationalization and innovation performance and the ‘dark side’ of political ties.adopting a microfoundations approach to the analysis of intra-multinational enterprise (mne) knowledge integration, we focus on mobile inventors and their boundary-spanning experience. using inventor-patent data on us-based mnes, we show that intra-organizational cross-border mobility and inter-organizational mobility have respectively a positive and a negative effect on knowledge integration. cross-border mobility within the mne enables the temporary co-location of mobile inventors in different units, facilitating the dissemination of their knowledge within the mne. conversely, “job-hopping” inventors may remain organizational outsiders, which hinders their ability to foster intra-mne knowledge integration.similar to many other medical training programs, fellowship interviews for hand surgery will be conducted virtually for a second consecutive year. we provide strategies for applicants to ideally portray themselves and to learn about fellowship programs. we include approaches for fellowship programs to identify candidates that match their values as a program, as well as ways to provide useful information to applicants about the program’s culture. given that components of virtual interviewing and recruitment will likely be an ongoing part of fellowship applications, we hope this article provides a framework to guide both applicants and program faculty for the 2021 to 2022 cycle and beyond.the antecedents of firms' r&d internationalization have attracted the attention and discussion of scholars. however, the manner and circumstances in which a firm's past innovation performance affects its r&d internationalization decisions have not yet been discussed. based on the behavioral theory of the firm (btof), we propose that persistent innovation underperformance might serve as a motivating factor to trigger r&d internationalization and that the top management team (tmt) determines how responsive to persistent innovation underperformance the firm is likely to be. results from empirical analyses of panel data from 1323 listed chinese manufacturing companies over a 9-year period indicate that a longer duration of persistent innovation underperformance increases the likelihood that firms will implement r&d internationalization. integrating the moderating roles of multidimensional tmt human capital, we further find that tmt education level and technical background strengthen the abovementioned relationship, while tmt international experience weakens the abovementioned relationship. the contributions, implications, and limitations of this study are fully discussed.background
                  often, military personnel do not seek treatment for mental illness or wait until they reach a crisis point. effective, selective, and indicated prevention is best achieved by seeking treatment early.
               
                  aims
                  we aimed to examine military personnel's attitudes, beliefs, and needs around seeking treatment for mental illness. we compared those who sought treatment to those who did not and those with and without the intention to seek treatment. finally, we examined factors associated with intentions of not seeking treatment.
               
                  method
                  we conducted a cross-sectional questionnaire study of military personnel with (n = 324) and without (n = 554) mental illness. descriptive and regression analyses (logistic and ordinal) were performed.
               
                  results
                  the majority of the personnel believed treatment was effective (91.6%); however, most preferred to solve their own problems (66.0%). for personnel with mental illness, compared to those who sought treatment, those who did not had a higher preference for self-management and found advice from others less important. for those without mental illness, those with no intention to seek treatment indicated a higher preference for self-management, stigma-related concerns, denial of symptoms, lower belief in treatment effectiveness and found it less important to be an example, compared to those with treatment-seeking intentions. a clear indication of where to seek help was the most reported need (95.7%). regression analyses indicated that not seeking treatment was most strongly related to preference for self-management (or(95%ci) = 4.36(2.02–9.39); no intention to seek treatment was most strongly related to a lower belief that treatment is effective (or(95%ci) = .41(0.28–0.59) and with not having had positive earlier experiences with treatment seeking (or(95%ci) = .34(0.22–0.52).
               
                  conclusions
                  to facilitate (early) treatment seeking, interventions should align with a high preference for self-management, mental illness stigma should be targeted, and a clear indication of where to seek treatment is needed.purpose
                  approximately 40% of randomized controlled trials are not published, leading to publication bias and less informed clinical decision-making. qualitative interviews were conducted to understand whether and how industry sponsors of clinical trials of drugs and biologics in canada influence decisions to report trial results.
               
                  methods
                  participants eligible for an interview included clinical trial investigators and research coordinators with experience in drug research, research ethics board members with at least 1 year of experience in ethical review of trials, research administrators with knowledge of dissemination of clinical trial findings or relations with trial sponsors, and trial participants who had taken part in a drug trial as an adult in the 5 years before their interview. semi-structured interviews were held in person or by telephone between march 2019 and april 2021 with participants in alberta, british columbia, and ontario, canada. qualitative analysis included coding of interview transcripts and identification of key themes.
               
                  findings
                  interviews were conducted with 34 participants, including 17 clinical trial investigators, 1 clinical research coordinator, 3 research administrators, 3 research ethics board members, and 10 clinical trial participants. participants involved in the conduct, administration, or ethical review of trials represented a range of medical disciplines. interview participant accounts indicated that in some cases, industry sponsors influence whether results are reported. a core theme was that companies have a weaker incentive to publish trials with unfavorable findings and trials for products that they have decided not to develop further. companies may influence reporting in various ways, including stopping trials early and not reporting results of stopped trials, owning and controlling access to data, and negotiating clinical trial agreements in multicenter trials that do not fully protect the ability of investigators to publish. internal company trials represent an additional source of unpublished trials. more broadly, the research system creates a dependency on funding from industry sponsors that may weaken the ability of researchers and research institutions to negotiate terms with industry sponsors that would fully protect publication rights.
               
                  implications
                  interviews with trial investigators and others connected to trial research indicate that in some cases, industry sponsors of clinical trial research in canada influence whether results are reported. policies aiming to bring about full reporting of trials could benefit from considering the commercial incentives of companies and the ways in which industry sponsors may influence clinical trial reporting. future research could examine the generalizability of these findings to other jurisdictions.how do group-based interaction tendencies form through encounters with individual group members? in four experiments, in which participants interacted with group members in a reinforcement learning task presented as a money sharing game, participants formed instrumental reward associations with individual group members through direct interaction and feedback. results revealed that individual-level reward learning generalized to a group-based representation, as indicated in self-reported group attitudes, trait impressions, and the tendency to choose subsequent interactions with novel members of the group. experiments 3 and 4 further demonstrated that group-based reward effects on interaction choices persisted even when past group reward value was no longer predicted of future positive outcomes, consistent with a habit-like expression of group bias. these results demonstrate a novel process of prejudice formation based on instrumental reward learning from direct interactions with individual group members. we discuss implications for existing theories of prejudice, the role of habit in intergroup bias, and intervention strategies to reduce prejudice.we provide evidence on how workers on an online platform perceive algorithmic versus human recruitment through two incentivized experiments designed to elicit willingness to pay for human or algorithmic evaluation. in particular, we test how information on workers’ performance affects their recruiter choice and whether the algorithmic recruiter is perceived as more or less gender-biased than the human one. we find that workers do perceive human and algorithmic evaluation differently, even though both recruiters are given the same inputs in our controlled setting. specifically, human recruiters are perceived to be more error-prone evaluators and place more weight on personal characteristics, whereas algorithmic recruiters are seen as placing more weight on task performance. consistent with these perceptions, workers with good task performance relative to others prefer algorithmic evaluation, whereas those with lower task performance prefer human evaluation. we also find suggestive evidence that perceived differences in gender bias drive preferences for human versus algorithmic recruitment.asynchronous video interviews (avis) are a form of one-way, technology-mediated, selection interviewing that continue to grow in popularity. an avi is a broad method that varies substantially in design and execution. despite being adopted by many organizations, human resources professionals, and hiring managers, research on avis is lagging far behind practice. empirical evidence is scarce and conceptual work to guide research efforts and best practice recommendations is lacking. we propose a framework for examining the role and impact of specific design features of avis, building on theories of justice-based applicant reactions, social presence, interview anxiety, and impression management. more precisely, our framework highlights how pre-interview design decisions by organizations and completion decisions by applicants can influence reactions and behaviors during the interview, as well as post-interview outcomes. as such, we offer an agenda of the central topics that need to be addressed, and a set of testable propositions to guide future research.in this perspective, we develop a matrix for auditing algorithmic decision-making systems (adss) used in the hiring domain. the tool is a socio-technical assessment of hiring adss that is aimed at surfacing the underlying assumptions that justify the use of an algorithmic tool and the forms of knowledge or insight they purport to produce. these underlying assumptions, it is argued, are crucial for assessing not only whether an ads works “as intended,” but also whether the intentions with which the tool was designed are well founded. throughout, we contextualize the use of the matrix within current and proposed regulatory regimes and within emerging hiring practices that incorporate algorithmic technologies. we suggest using the matrix to expose underlying assumptions rooted in pseudo-scientific essentialized understandings of human nature and capability and to critically investigate emerging auditing standards and practices that fail to address these assumptions.why are some research grant applications selected for funding while others are not? in this paper we investigate whether the writing style of grant applications influences the evaluation scores and the decisions by selection panels. a linguistic analysis of the grant proposal abstract, the project description and the cv of the applicant does reveal several characteristics of the texts that have a positive effect on the score the grant applications receive, and through that on the probability to be selected for funding. the explained variance is moderate, suggesting grant proposal reviewers base their decisions not only on the scientific content of the grant application, but also on the form in which it is presented.companies are increasingly turning to ai software to select candidates, despite concerns that hiring algorithms may produce biased evaluations. this study explores the public perceptions of algorithms used in resume and video interview screening. in addition, the effects of individual characteristics on these perceptions are examined. using a nationally representative sample, we find that the public generally has a negative attitude towards the use of algorithms in hiring, and the majority do not consider them fair and effective. we also find clear individual differences regarding the perceptions towards algorithms. specifically, males, people with higher education level and people with higher income have more positive perceptions towards hiring algorithms than their counterparts. the findings contribute to the emerging body of research on hiring algorithms and suggest strategies to increase public acceptance of hiring algorithms.the study presented here aims at bringing a global perspective to the phenomenon of unequal representation of females in science by offering empirical data of female representation in neuroscience/schizophrenia academic or clinical departments in several institutions around the world. we took advantage of a budding network of scientists and colleagues from different countries to bring the data together. the data presented are related to sex, that is the biological distinction between males and females, based on genetics and reproductive anatomy, while gender, considered a cultural concept was harder to determine. we report data from two clinical/academic departments in nigeria, africa; 2 clinical/academic departments from sudan, africa; 1 clinical/academic department from south africa, africa; 3 academic institutions from ireland, europe; 1 clinical/academic institution from spain, europe; 2 academic institutions from buenos aires university, argentina; and the psychiatry departments at harvard medical school, boston, usa.as the globally increasing population drives rapid urbanization in various parts of the world, there is a great need to deliberate on the future of the cities worth living. in particular, as modern smart cities embrace more and more data-driven artificial intelligence services, it is worth remembering that (1) technology can facilitate prosperity, wellbeing, urban livability, or social justice, but only when it has the right analog complements (such as well-thought out policies, mature institutions, responsible governance); and (2) the ultimate objective of these smart cities is to facilitate and enhance human welfare and social flourishing. researchers have shown that various technological business models and features can in fact contribute to social problems such as extremism, polarization, misinformation, and internet addiction. in the light of these observations, addressing the philosophical and ethical questions involved in ensuring the security, safety, and interpretability of such ai algorithms that will form the technological bedrock of future cities assumes paramount importance. globally there are calls for technology to be made more humane and human-centered. in this paper, we analyze and explore key challenges including security, robustness, interpretability, and ethical (data and algorithmic) challenges to a successful deployment of ai in human-centric applications, with a particular emphasis on the convergence of these concepts/challenges. we provide a detailed review of existing literature on these key challenges and analyze how one of these challenges may lead to others or help in solving other challenges. the paper also advises on the current limitations, pitfalls, and future directions of research in these domains, and how it can fill the current gaps and lead to better solutions. we believe such rigorous analysis will provide a baseline for future research in the domain.a bulk of experimental research has pointed to ethnic hiring discrimination as a key driver of social inequalities in multi-ethnic labour markets. however, the role of recruiter nationality as a possible moderator of ethnic hiring discrimination has been widely neglected. against this background, this study examines the role of recruiter nationality in hiring discrimination involving foreign applicants. i used data from a recent factorial survey experiment conducted with real recruiters in luxembourg (
                        n
                         
                        =
                      677 from 113 recruiters). respondents rated six experimentally manipulated profiles of fictitious applicants for jobs in different occupational fields. luxembourg is a relevant case due to its multi-ethnic workforce at various levels of the vertical strata of labour market positions, which allows to test the role of ethnic homophily in hiring decisions. the results suggested that foreign recruiters discriminate less against foreign applicants than native recruiters do. furthermore, the effect of being a foreign applicant was more negative if the applicant’s nationality matched the recruiter’s nationality. however, none of the observed differences in effects were statistically significant. elucidating how both native and non-native recruiters make hiring decisions based on applicants’ nationality contributes to a better understanding of how social inequalities emerge and intensify in multi-ethnic labour markets.bibliometric analyses have been the primary form of examining and evaluating literature within a field of study. by focusing on citation count and source, researchers have been able to identify journal articles considered to be high impact in reach and relevance, branding them “citation classics” in a field. as time progresses, technology, methods, and metrics for conducting these analyses have improved, and although there have been several studies designed to identify citation classics and patterns of citations supporting them in school psychology literature, none have done so in an updated, comprehensive manner. to address these limitations, the current study aims to replicate and extend these works in three major ways: (a) including 11 primary school psychology journals in the search, (b) using three of the largest reference databases, and (c) collapsing results across these databases to accurately identify the most highly cited articles. the search yielded evidence of more than 12,000 articles accruing more than 500,000 citations. the 100 most highly cited articles were identified, and the majority were classified as explicative (n = 63) and quantitative (n = 70). themes of bullying, burnout, and teacher-child relationships were the prominent focus. school psychology's citation classics tended to feature quantitative research and examine the relations between constructs, and several revealed a new category of citations classics: the methodological and statistical article.high teacher attrition rates are an international problem. this study explores what former teachers pinpoint as their main exit reasons from teaching. interviews were conducted with twenty-one former teachers in flanders (belgium) about push and pull factors. our findings show that teachers mainly relate their exit to characteristics of the profession. for novices, the characteristics of the profession resulting in attrition are job insecurity and an exceeding workload, while the decisive factor for experienced teachers is the professions' flat career structure. moreover, the school context reinforces career doubts, especially for novices who experience issues with class management and feel demoralised.hiring is a fundamental, frequent activity for all organizations. hiring decisions have been reported to be subject to conscious and unconscious biases in the literature. the field of computational ethics aims to quantify and maximize the ethicality of decisions. this paper attempts to apply computational ethics to the shortlisting process in hiring through the use of linear programming. given a set of applicants for a job with numerical qualification values, the author aims to determine weights for each qualification type to compute scores and resulting rankings for each applicant. to this end, abstract moral theories of utilitarianism, maximin/leximin, egalitarianism, and prioritarianism are utilized and applied to a set of randomly generated applicant data. computational experiments demonstrate that the models are scalable and return interpretable results. the necessity of a quota-based shortlisting system to alleviate disadvantaged candidates is highlighted. the author recommends the use of the maximin model and iteratively eliminating the applicant with the lowest score.we examine how firms leverage their resources, through fdi decisions into profits growth. drawing on over 19,000 multinational firms, we employ a matching process and find that while investment in developed countries leads to productivity improvement, profits growth is not automatic, but requires continued productivity growth. contrasting the emphasis placed on different firm-level resources by the resource-based view and the knowledge-based view, we show that a firm’s capability to invest in firm-specific assets accelerates the speed of reaping the rents from knowledge seeking fdi in developed countries. in addition, profits growth as a result from investing in developing countries is greater for firms who appoint foreign directors from the same global or regional cluster as their foreign subsidiaries. moreover, developing country mnes, if properly deploying their firm resources, can leverage the benefits of fdi location into performance better than developed country mnes.we examine the reasons behind a wage penalty that is applied to foreign-educated immigrants—a phenomenon identified across countries and levels of educational attainment. the lower wages employers offer to high-skilled immigrants are usually attributed to the foreignness of their educational credentials. we argue instead that their disadvantaged economic outcomes are related to the educational prestige of their universities and the cultural distance of their places of education. employers may interpret signals of ability from the educational prestige associated with credentials and may view immigrants as lacking relevant cultural competence if they perceive the place of education as culturally distant. using data from the u.s. h-1b visa program, we show that employers do not discount wage offers to immigrants with foreign degrees per se. instead, we find that they offer lower wages to immigrants with educational credentials from less prestigious universities and more culturally distant places of education.the covid-19 pandemic has significantly impacted businesses worldwide by lowering demand, impeding operations, stressing supply chains, and limiting access to finance. yet we still lack an understanding of how firms can successfully adapt to this disruption. i examine this issue theoretically by combining arguments around dynamic capabilities and managerial cognition and developing several hypotheses concerning firm innovation, knowledge sources, management practices, and gender issues in relation to firms’ adaptation to this crisis. i test these assertions using data from two rounds of surveys involving more than 11,000 firms from 28 countries both before and after covid-19 was officially declared a global crisis. the empirical results provide prima facie evidence that innovators, in particular those who are younger (i.e. start-ups) and those who rely on internal sources of knowledge, are more likely to adapt to covid-19 than non-innovators. moreover, firms with better management practices exhibit also greater ability to adapt to the crisis. i did not find systematic gender differences upon examining firms managed by women versus men. following these findings, i set out several implications for research and policy.this paper studies how biases in managerial beliefs affect managerial decisions, firm performance, and the macroeconomy. using a new survey of us managers i establish three facts. (1) managers are not overoptimistic: sales growth forecasts on average do not exceed realizations. (2) managers are overprecise: they underestimate future sales growth volatility. (3) managers overextrapolate: their forecasts are too optimistic after positive shocks and too pessimistic after negative shocks. to quantify the implications, i estimate a dynamic general equilibrium model in which managers of heterogeneous firms use a subjective beliefs process to make forward-looking hiring decisions. overprecision and overextrapolation lead managers to overreact to firm-level shocks and overspend on adjustment costs, destroying 2.1% to 6.8% of the typical firm’s value. pervasive overreaction leads to excess volatility and reallocation, lowering consumer welfare by 0.5% to 2.3% relative to the rational-expectations equilibrium. these findings suggest overreaction could amplify asset-price and business-cycle fluctuations.unknownoutward foreign direct investment (ofdi) by emerging economy multinational enterprises (emnes) is an increasingly significant global economic phenomenon. a growing and extensive body of research has examined the ofdi performance outcomes of emnes. our systematic review seeks to capture the diverse theoretical lenses adopted and advanced in this stream of research, synthesize empirical findings, identify methodological challenges, and recommend directions for future research. following a comprehensive and rigorous literature review, we identified 175 relevant studies published from 2001 to 2020. our review suggests that a wide range of theories across disciplinary boundaries have been applied, and in some cases extended, to understand the performance outcomes of the ofdi of emnes. empirically, previous studies have focused on different performance dimensions when assessing the ofdi outcomes of emnes, and investigated antecedents and contingencies across micro, meso, and macro levels. based on our review findings, we propose a number of future research directions to move this research stream forward.firms that wish to raise capital from external investors can signal favorable private information about their long-term prospects by publicly adopting a liberal accounting system that increases the probability of an overstated financial report. all else equal, the liberal bias deteriorates investors' ability to make efficient investment decisions, which increases the firm's cost of raising capital as investors price protect. but the fact that the firm is willing to adopt such a bias signals booming long-term prospects, which ultimately allows the firm to raise capital at more favorable terms. we also study the effects of accounting standards that require firms to generate unbiased financial reports. unbiased reporting leads to efficient investment decisions but prevents firms from signaling private information, which reduces their incentive to improve long-term prospects. we find that giving firms discretion over reporting choices is optimal in innovative industries, whereas enforcing unbiased reporting is optimal in traditional industries.this special issue was developed to extend the boundaries of strategic leadership research, to help bridge the micro-macro divide regarding theories of strategic leadership, and to bring together theories that have emerged independently. in this introductory editorial, we provide an overview of the research on strategic leadership and emphasize the need for further integration of research from the organizational behavior, industrial and organizational psychology, organizational economics, behavioral strategy, and strategic management fields. we then introduce and summarize the eleven articles we accepted for this special issue by classifying them into two broad themes: (a) chief executive officer (ceo) characteristics and (b) the dynamics of interactions among the ceo, the top management team, and the board. finally, we propose recent theoretical and empirical foci for advancing strategic leadership research and offer a research agenda for future research highlighting several important research questions related to extending the dialogue among scholars across the different leadership and strategy domains.business-to-business companies often differentiate themselves from competitors by complementing goods with services. while extant literature on servitization points to substantial benefits for companies and underscores the importance of the sales force for successful servitization, it has rarely empirically investigated the negative effects of and barriers to effective selling of servitized offerings at the salesperson level. drawing on transaction cost theory, we propose that with rising service shares, the specificity of offers and transaction costs grow, partially offsetting the financial benefits. we derive four salesperson factors that moderate the effect of salespeople’s industrial service share on salespeople’s profit. these factors pertain to the extent to which salespeople individualize offers and effectively manage offers’ specificity (adaptiveness, customer valuation skills, experience). we test our conceptualization with data from 220 salespeople and company records. the results are robust to endogeneity and show that service share has a diminishing positive effect on salesperson profit. while salespersons’ offer individualization enforces this harmful effect, salesperson adaptiveness and customer valuation skills show beneficial moderating effects. this study provides valuable insights for researchers and managers into the role of the sales force in servitization and into salesperson factors conducive to realizing the full profit potential of servitized offerings.in this study, we propose human capital as an important enabler of new venture growth (nvg) and investigate how and when it enhances nvg. we examined this by considering a dynamic capability – reverse engineering– as a mediator and competitive strategy as an important contingency variable. using survey data collected from 229 new manufacturing ventures in an emerging economy (ghana), the results indicate that reverse engineering mediates the effect of human capital on nvg. the contingency analyses also revealed that the positive impact of reverse engineering on nvg is stronger at high levels of low-cost strategy. however, the relationship between reverse engineering and nvg is weaker when the differentiation strategy is high. the implications of the findings are discussed.unknownartificial intelligence (ai) systems and applications based on them are fast pervading the various functions of an organization. while ai systems enhance organizational performance, thereby catching the attention of the decision makers, they nonetheless pose threats of job losses for human resources. this in turn pose challenges to human resource managers, tasked with governing the ai adoption processes. however, these challenges afford opportunities to critically examine the various facets of ai systems as they interface with human resources. to that end, we systematically review the literature at the intersection of ai and human resource management (hrm). using the configurational approach, we identify the evolution of different theme based causal configurations in conceptual and empirical research and the outcomes of ai-hrm interaction. we observe incremental mutations in thematic causal configurations as the literature evolves and also provide thematic configuration based explanations to beneficial and reactionary outcomes in the ai-hrm interaction process.social categories matter to people, but it is not obvious ex ante which ones matter more. to explore this, we conduct a novel experimental market of anonymous partners based on social categories. participants have the option of choosing or discarding a peer according to their gender, ethnicity, and religion. our research design allows us to explore whether individuals prioritize social categories when selecting a peer and whether the order in which social categories are prioritized is context dependent. considering both free and costly decisions, two economic contexts are evaluated: donations (dictator game) and investments (risk game). we find that when selecting a partner, gender appears to be the dominant social category across different conditions, with subjects exhibiting sharp preferences for being matched with a female partner. however, the partner's religion gains prominence as a requested social category when issues concerning social-group decision-making become relevant to one's own payoffs. finally, we find that choosing social categories seems to have economic consequences both by increasing economic donations and increasing investments.introduction
                  how emotional intelligence interrelates with employee innovation becomes a timely and crucial topic for research, for human resource and organizational psychology practitioners and academicians alike.
               
                  objective
                  the study examined the mediating effect of person-group fit and adaptive performance on employee innovation. a sequential mediation framework explaining the relationship between emotional intelligence and employee innovation was constructed. this study differentiates itself from other similar studies on emotional intelligence and employee innovation since it suggests a novel approach to enhance employee innovation.
               
                  methods
                  electronic as well as paper-based surveys were conducted to collect the data and the analysis of 417 responses revealed that the hypotheses were strongly supported by the data.
               
                  results
                  we found that a sequential mediation effect exists between person-group fit and adaptive performance. the findings offer a significant contribution to the field of human resources, since prior research has examined neither the simple mediating effect nor the sequential mediating effect of person-group fit and adaptive performance between emotional intelligence and employee innovation.
               
                  conclusion
                  the theoretical and practical implications of the findings were explored which have substantial value for human resources especially, for recruitment and training teams.existing research has underexplored the role of context as a source of heterogeneity in family firms’ (ffs) internationalization strategies. drawing upon institutional theory, we develop and test a mid-range theory positing that differences in the quality of the institutional context can moderate the strength of the relationship between individual- and board-level attributes and ff internationalization. our comparison of u.s. ffs with ffs from brazil and mexico reveals that in emerging market ffs, individual-level attributes such as ceo international experience, ceo educational attainment, and ceo international education exhibit a stronger relationship with internationalization. similarly, we find that board-level attributes such as board size and board independence are also more strongly related to internationalization in emerging market contexts. we contribute to the literature by identifying a source of variation in ff internationalization strategies based on context and by examining the relationship between a wide range of ff attributes and internationalization.we juxtapose the executive recruitment decisions of family and non-family firms. we hypothesize that hiring preferences toward executive candidates differ between family and non-family firms. we test our predictions against field data from executive recruitment processes involving family and non-family firms. drawn from an executive hiring company, the sample includes 166 candidates in 56 selection processes on behalf of 42 client companies (28 family firms). our results indicate that family firms prefer to hire managers with strong functional competence and leadership skills, whereas non-family firms prefer to employ managers with more pronounced market knowledge. despite these differences, both types of firms are drawn to performance-oriented candidates, i.e., individuals with a strong focus on client and result orientation. for researchers and practitioners alike, our study demonstrates the importance of understanding the distinct hiring requirements of family firms when they professionalize.background
                  despite the increasing numbers of female medical students, surgery remains male-dominated.
               
                  purpose
                  to highlight the principal career obstacles experienced by aspiring female surgeons.
               
                  methods
                  a narrative review of literature on the position and career barriers of female surgeons has been conducted, using the medline and embase databases.
               
                  main findings
                  implicit and even explicit biases against female surgeons remain prevalent, negatively impacting their training performance and overall professional trajectory. female surgeons are globally underrepresented in leadership positions and senior academic rankings, especially that of a full professor. they feel hampered by lack of effective mentorship, whose value for a successful career has been acknowledged by all medical students, surgeons and surgical leaders. their work-life imbalance is sometimes expressed as lower likelihood than their male contemporaries of getting married or having children and may be attributed to their conventional association with the role of caretaker, their personal desire to accommodate occupational and family duties and the inadequate implementation of parental leave and childcare policies. female surgeons’ “infertility” may be further explained by direct and indirect pregnancy-related difficulties. female surgeons are also financially undercompensated compared to their male contemporaries. finally, specialty-specific challenges should not be overlooked.
               
                  conclusions
                  while encouraging steps have been made, women in surgery feel still hindered by various obstacles. the qualitative, interview-based nature of current literature requires more meticulous studies on these barriers with a more quantitative and objective approach. attenuation of gender imbalance in surgical specialties requires further changes in mentality and more targeted modifications in relevant policies.over a decade ago, rosette, leonardelli, and phillips (2008) conducted a study on race and business leader prototypes and discovered that participants held an implicit “white leadership standard”. as revealed in that study, such a standard introduces racial bias into the leadership categorization process, and places employees from racial minority groups at a disadvantage as they seek to attain leadership roles. however, in the last decade, broader trends and events in american society (e.g., the obama presidency; the harris vice presidency; an increase in minority business leader representation; changing demographics) have altered the socio-cultural context in which implicit leadership theories (ilts) develop, hence offering the possibility that leadership models may have become amenable to change. the present study set out to retest the theoretical hypotheses of rosette et al. (2008) in a direct/close replication study to examine the extent to which the findings generalize to a new sample within this new era. across four experimental studies, results reveal more racially inclusive leadership perceptions than previously observed, as well as a weakened and context-dependent white leadership standard.victims of many types of transgressions may delay voicing accusations of wrongdoing. across seven studies and a within-paper meta-analysis, we examine whether these victims pay a social cost and, if so, how they can reduce it. we find that people perceive victims who delay (vs. do not delay) voicing accusations to have less psychological standing to accuse their transgressors. people therefore perceive such victims as lacking in integrity-based trustworthiness and, often, in benevolence-based trustworthiness as well. people consequently report greater intentions to avoid such victims, trust them less in an economic game with money at stake, and are less willing to hire them. the findings collectively highlight the difficulty that victims face in moving from silence to voice. we further draw on the triangle model of excuses (e.g., schlenker, 1997) to identify attributions that attenuate the social cost of victims’ delayed accusations.although international students play a central role in addressing labour shortages and strengthening the economies of receiving countries, research examining the workforce integration of international graduates has been relatively sparse. recently, however, this topic has garnered increasing empirical attention spanning across disciplines and levels of analysis. we conducted a systematic review of 74 academic articles examining the workforce integration of international graduates to take stock of the literature in this domain, summarize emergent themes and key findings, and highlight potential pathways for future research. based on our review, we identify various antecedents of workforce integration at various levels of analysis (micro-, meso-, macro-), ranging from specific characteristics of the international graduate (e.g., host country cultural knowledge, language fluency, motivation, family status) to organizational attributes and practices (e.g., recruitment and selection, post-secondary institution support) to broader societal factors (e.g., immigration and labour policy/legislation, economic conditions), and delineate several promising avenues for future research.when deciding whom to ally with or avoid, people benefit from assessing the quantity and quality of strangers’ relationships with others. how accurately do people make such social network assessments? across three lab studies and one preregistered field study, we tested whether people (total n = 1545) could make accurate judgments about a stranger’s (total n = 709) social network characteristics after watching brief thin slice videos of the stranger or negotiating with them. the findings consistently demonstrated that perceivers accurately detected the size of a stranger’s social networks and their gender and family composition, based on theoretically relevant social-behavioral tendencies and traits (e.g., extraversion, gender), but not how interconnected these social networks were. perceivers also missed cues that could have facilitated greater accuracy. these data advance theory about adaptive social decision making in psychology, network science, sociology, and organizational behavior. we also provide the freely available social network accuracy test (snat) for future research: (
                        https://osf.io/zgbse
                     ).in 2011 icao published a report about projected pilot and training capacity shortage (icao, 2011). to solve this problem, several studies have been carried out, and forecasts of the required number of pilots for the next 10–20 years are constantly being updated. universities have begun introducing pilot training into their aviation courses, although only us airlines require a degree from the candidates to work as a pilot. the leading providers of pilot training facilities and industry observers argue that even with severe flight restrictions due to covid-19, the shortage of pilots and quality pilot training remains a major concern. there is a trend of under-representation of females in the pilot roles. some researchers and aviation industry experts assume that more women should be recruited into the profession to address the pilot shortage.
                  this paper explores the current key reasons for the low female representation in pilot training recruitment. in many studies, the problem of gender discrimination and societal stereotype that believes that the pilot is a purely male type of job are dominant among the negative ones. the authors investigated whether these factors are seen as predominant in women's career decisions in aviation. a qualitative study was conducted utilising the semi-structured in-depth interview of nine female pilots from europe, australia and uk. a transcript based content analysis was done using nvivo. further, the triangulation method was utilized to verify the results of the study.
                  the main findings from this research show that, in addition to the high cost of training and the tendency of airlines to shift financial obligations for training to students, the hiring of pilots continues to suffer from gender inequality. reasons such as “lack of role models for young girls and women in aviation”, “cultural sexism” and “lack of acceptance from male peers and passengers” continue to hinder the promotion of the pilot profession among women. multiple organisations and airlines have initiatives in place to mitigate the problems connected with pilot training and hiring. however, the effectiveness of these initiatives is controversial, as the number of female pilots has seen hardly any growth in the past ten years. furthermore, they may be responsible in future for creating an even more “gender-unequal” culture inside the industry, as women will be seen in their roles only due to gender recruitment requirement. all stakeholders, including universities that choose to participate in the pilot training process, could help rethink the principles of gender balance, increasing the visibility of their initiatives and raising public awareness of the availability of pilot training and career prospects for women.
                  the article presents the theoretical and practical implications of the reasons for low female representation in pilot training recruitment.the moral primacy model proposes that throughout the multiple stages of developing impressions of others, information about the target's morality is more influential than information about their competence or sociability. would morality continue to exert outsized influence on impressions in the context of a decision for which people view competence as the most important attribute? in three experiments, we used an impression updating paradigm to test how much information about a target's morality versus competence changed perceivers' impressions of a job candidate. despite several pilot studies in which people said they would prioritize competence over morality when deciding to hire a potential employee, results of the main studies reveal that impressions changed more when people received new information about a target's immorality than about his incompetence. this moral primacy effect held both for global impressions and willingness to hire the target, but direct effects on evaluations of the target as an employee did not consistently emerge. when the new information about the target was positive, we did not reliably observe a moral primacy effect. these findings provide important insight on the generalizability of moral primacy in impression updating.women and men often contribute differently to research knowledge. do differences in these contributions partially explain disparities in academic career outcomes? we explore this by looking at how gender is embodied in research language, and then ascertain whether the adoption of more gendered research language affects career outcomes beyond the researcher's attributes. we identify different forms of gendered knowledge—gender referents (explicit references to sex and gender) and gender-associated terms (words that are implicitly associated with women or men researchers)—by applying natural language processing techniques to nearly one million doctoral dissertations published in the united states between 1980 and 2010. we then determine whether employing gender referents and gender-associated terms affects the course of phds’ ensuing careers. we find women researchers have lower chances of securing academic positions than men in every field; explicit references to women as research subjects are modestly rewarded in comparison to references to men; and more career opportunities are afforded to research knowledge associated with men. these results suggest that academia is slowly correcting the traditional and explicit bias of studying men at the exclusion of women. still, there remains a stronger implicit bias against knowledge associated with women scholars. we discuss relative differences between humanities and social sciences versus natural sciences, technology, engineering, and math, as well as potential treatments for offsetting bias in those fields.discrimination in selection problems such as hiring or college admission is often explained by implicit bias from the decision maker against disadvantaged demographic groups. in this paper, we consider a model where the decision maker receives a noisy estimate of each candidate's quality, whose variance depends on the candidate's group—we argue that such differential variance is a key feature of many selection problems. we analyze two notable settings: in the first, the noise variances are unknown to the decision maker who simply picks the candidates with the highest estimated quality independently of their group; in the second, the variances are known and the decision maker picks candidates having the highest expected quality given the noisy estimate. we show that both baseline decision makers yield discrimination, although in opposite directions: the first leads to underrepresentation of the low-variance group while the second leads to underrepresentation of the high-variance group. we study the effect on the selection utility of imposing a fairness mechanism that we term the γ-rule (it is an extension of the classical four-fifths rule and it also includes demographic parity). in the first setting (with unknown variances), we prove that under mild conditions, imposing the γ-rule increases the selection utility—here there is no trade-off between fairness and utility. in the second setting (with known variances), imposing the γ-rule decreases the utility but we prove a bound on the utility loss due to the fairness mechanism.assessing gender disparities in science commercialisation has been in the centre of the unresolved debates on the inadequacies of the methods used to compare female and male academics. drawing from the literature on non–ip-based academic entrepreneurship and gender disparities in science, this study used the “pair-matched” technique to isolate 406 female and male academics in business schools (203 of each gender from a sample of 729 academics) who share common characteristics regarding academic position, subdisciplinary affiliation, and experience. the study confirms that a comparison of female and noncomparable male academics could lead to an unfair judgement of female academics’ performance. however, the results show that even compared to comparable men, women are less involved in remunerated consultations, generate a smaller proportion of their revenue from consultations and are less engaged in the creation of consultancy companies. in addition, the study allows us to quantify a leaky pipeline of both genders involved in informal academic entrepreneurship and to identify four paths, from progressive to nonprogressive. most female academics follow a progressive entrepreneurial path but often struggle to move from nonremunerated to remunerated entrepreneurial engagements. the study concludes with implications for university administrators on knowledge transfer and gender inequality.ranking items or people is a fundamental operation at the basis of several processes and services, not all of them happening online. ranking is required for different tasks, including search, personalization, recommendation, and filtering. while traditionally ranking has been aimed solely at maximizing some global utility function, recently the awareness of potential discrimination for some of the elements to rank, has captured the attention of researchers, which have thus started devising ranking systems which are non-discriminatory or fair for the items being ranked. so far, researchers have mostly focused on group fairness, which is usually expressed in the form of constraints on the fraction of elements from some protected groups that should be included in the top-
                        k
                      positions, for any relevant 
                        k
                     . these constraints are needed in order to correct implicit societal biases existing in the input data and reflected in the relevance or fitness score computed.
                  in this article, we tackle the problem of selecting a subset of 
                        k
                      individuals from a pool of 
                        
                           n
                           ≫
                           k
                        
                      candidates, maximizing global utility (i.e., selecting the “best” candidates) while respecting given group-fairness criteria. in particular, to tackle this fair top-
                     
                        k
                      
                     ranking problem, we adopt a ranked group-fairness definition which extends the standard notion of group fairness based on protected groups, by ensuring that the proportion of protected candidates in every prefix of the top-
                        k
                      ranking remains statistically above, or indistinguishable from, a given minimum threshold. our notion of utility requires, intuitively, that every individual included in the top-
                        k
                      should be more qualified than every candidate not included; and that for every pair of candidates in the top-
                        k
                     , the more qualified candidate should be ranked above.
                  the main contribution of this paper is an algorithm for producing a fair top-
                        k
                      ranking that can be used when more than one protected group is present, which means that a statistical test based on a multinomial distribution needs to be used instead of one for a binomial distribution, as the original fa*ir algorithms does. this poses important technical challenges and increases both the space and time complexity of the re-ranking algorithm. our experimental assessment on real-world datasets shows that our approach yields small distortions with respect to rankings that maximize utility without considering our fairness criteria.people are able to quickly and automatically evaluate faces on different traits, such as trustworthiness. there is a growing literature demonstrating that factors such as learning and experience play a role in shaping these judgments. in the current work, we assess the malleability of our trait evaluations by associating arbitrary facial features with trustworthy or untrustworthy behaviors. across five studies, we demonstrate that this learning can impact trait evaluation and effectively form novel facial stereotypes, which exert effects on evaluations as strong as intrinsic facial trustworthiness. with only a brief training, participants' rapidly acquired novel facial stereotypes, which were activated automatically and early on in processing, and which biased participants' trust behavior and hiring decisions. these results suggest that our trait evaluations of faces are shaped by an implicit learning mechanism that abstracts the co-occurrence between facial features and trait-related behaviors, resulting in the creation of novel facial stereotypes.global practices such as offshoring and expatriation of employees increase cross-cultural interactions within and across firms. in this paper, we use three experiments to investigate the effects of cultural differences on employees' interpretations of employers' contract choices. applying insights from attribution theory, we predict that cultural differences will reduce the likelihood for employees to attribute employers' choice of a more-trusting contract to trust. this in turn will reduce the ability of such contracts to motivate higher employee effort. however, we also suggest that three interventions will mitigate the negative effect of cultural differences: employees' prior and primed exposure to employers' culture and employees' interactional cultural intelligence. in our labor market setting, employers chose a hiring contract for employees who, in return, indicated their effort levels. in all experiments, dyads interacted in real-time either in the same country or across two countries with high cultural difference. consistent with our predictions, we find that the effectiveness of a bonus contract in increasing employees' effort is reduced by high cultural difference (in experiment 1). we also find that employees' exposure to employers' culture, either due to prior exposure (in experiment 2) or by priming exposure through culture-specific training (in experiment 3) has a mitigating effect. finally, we find partial support that employees’ interactional cultural intelligence (cq) has a mitigating effect. implications to theory and practice are discussed.an increasing number of decisions regarding the daily lives of human beings are being controlled by artificial intelligence (ai) algorithms. since they now touch on many aspects of our lives, it is crucial to develop ai algorithms that are not only accurate but also objective and fair. recent studies have shown that algorithmic decision-making may be inherently prone to unfairness, even when there is no intention for it. in this paper, we study the fairness of ai algorithms in data settings for which unprivileged groups are extremely under-represented compared to privileged groups. a typical domain which often presents such privileged group selection bias (pgsb) is ai-based hiring, which stems from an inherent lack of labeled information for rejected applicants. we first demonstrate that such a selection bias can lead to a high algorithmic bias, even if privileged and unprivileged groups are treated exactly the same. we then propose several methods to overcome this type of bias. in particular, we suggest three in-process and pre-process fairness mechanisms, combined with both supervised and semi-supervised learning algorithms. an extensive evaluation that was conducted using two real-world datasets, reveals that the proposed methods are able to improve fairness considerably, with only a minimal compromise in accuracy. this is despite the limited information available for unprivileged groups and the inherent trade-off between fairness and accuracy.this paper contributes to the understanding of the causal relationship between teacher turnover and student performance. we extend this research by examining the mechanisms through which turnover affects student learning, and by providing evidence on how schools respond to mitigate the disruptive effects of turnover. using administrative data covering all state-school, age-16 students and their teachers in england, we find that a higher teacher entry rate has a small but significant negative effect on students’ final qualifications from compulsory-age schooling. this is the first study to document that the lack of school-specific human capital in incoming teachers is the main mechanism through which turnover disrupts student performance. we also find evidence that schools mitigate the effects of turnover by assigning new teachers away from high-risk student grades.we study to what extent familism accounts for the intergenerational transmission of jobs in regulated professions, and we examine the relevance of social norms to counteract familism. before 2004, local courts graded the italian bar exams for lawyers, and after 2004, exams were randomly assigned to external courts for grading. we measure family ties with the number of successful candidates sharing a family name and law firm address with an already registered lawyer. we find that the number of new entrants with a family tie drops by at least 10%, while the number of new lawyers does not change, showing that familism accounts for an important part of the intergenerational transmission in our setting. we do not find significant differences across gender, but our results are stronger in areas with weak social norms, although these areas have lower rents from licenses, suggesting that weak social norms rather than economic incentives are the main determinants of familism.racism and racial bias influence the lives and cardiovascular health of minority individuals. the fact that minority groups tend to have a higher burden of cardiovascular disease risk factors is often a result of racist policies that restrict opportunities to live in healthy neighbourhoods and have access to high-quality education and healthcare. the fact that minorities tend to have the worst outcomes when cardiovascular disease develops is often a result of institutional or individual racial bias encountered when they interact with the healthcare system. in this review, we discuss bias, discrimination, and structural racism from the viewpoints of cardiologists in canada, the united kingdom, and the us, and how racial bias impacts cardiovascular care. finally, we discuss proposals to mitigate the impact of racism in our specialty.resilience narratives (stories of encountering and overcoming adversity) are often solicited in pre-interview (e.g., application) and interview selection contexts. in this work, we examine the effectiveness of resilience narratives in pre-interview and interview selection contexts where applicants share personal narratives about themselves. drawing on attribution theory (heider, 1958; kelley, 1967) we make hypotheses about how perceived resiliency is shaped by resilience narratives and how this perception influences the hiring recommendations and emotional reactions of organizational decision-makers. specifically, we examine the effects of two key elements of resilience narratives (locus of adversity and locus of support) on attribution processes and decision-making. to test the hypothesized model, we conducted a set of in-depth interviews and three experiments. preliminary interview data demonstrated that hiring personnel consciously seek to assess perceived resiliency and resilience narrative loci in selection. in study 1 we tested proposed effects with 178 working adults in a university application pre-interview context, study 2 included a parallel experiment in an organizational interview context with 194 participants who had hiring experience, and study 3 involved quantitative experimental assessments of job interviewees conducted with 124 working adults with hiring experience. across two selection contexts (pre-interview applications, interviews) and three samples, results revealed that: (a) resilience narrative loci affect perceived trait resiliency attributions formed about applicants, and (b) perceived resiliency directly relates to emotional reactions and hiring recommendations, incrementally beyond competence perceptions. we detail theoretical and practical implications for the extension of attribution theory by integrating resilience narratives, perceived resiliency, and selection processes.in-group favoritism and prejudices relate to discriminatory behaviors but, despite decades of research, understanding of their neural correlates has been limited. a systematic coordinate-based meta-analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) studies (altogether 87 original datasets, n = 2328) was conducted to investigate neural inter-group biases, i.e., responses toward in-group vs. out-group in different contexts. we found inter-group biases in some previously identified brain regions (e.g., the medial prefrontal cortex, insula) but also in many previously non-identified brain regions (e.g., the cerebellum, precentral gyrus). sub-group analyses indicated that neural correlates of inter-group biases may be mostly context-specific. regarding different types of group memberships, inter-group bias toward trivial groups was evident only in the cingulate cortex, while inter-group biases toward “real” groups (ethnic, national, or political groups) involved broader sets of brain regions. additionally, there were heightened neural threat responses toward out-groups’ faces and stronger neural empathic responses toward in-groups’ suffering. we did not obtain significant publication bias. overall, the findings provide novel implications for theory and prejudice-reduction interventions.affirmative action remains a contentious topic in both research and practice. while advocates suggest that such action is necessary to overcome demographic imbalances in the labor market, some research shows that these policies can prompt undesirable employee reactions that negate their value. while positive discrimination (i.e., recruiting or promoting solely based on a protected characteristic) remains illegal in the united kingdom, organizations have increasingly begun adopting positive action measures (i.e., measures aimed at alleviating disadvantage or under-representation based on protected characteristics). however, there is little research looking at how these policies specifically affect employee attitudes or how different organizational rationales for positive action might moderate these effects. this lack of research is even more notable in the uk context. in two experimental studies of uk professionals (n = 353) we find that perceived organizational justice explained the relationship between positive action and affective commitment / turnover intention. however, evidence supporting the effect of organizational rationale was limited.apprenticeships are the core track of the swiss educational system at the upper-secondary level, made possible by the fact that many swiss firms voluntarily provide appropriate training positions. however, firms’ training provision differs substantively between the language-cultural regions within switzerland. this feature of the swiss apprenticeship system is hard to explain using conventional explanations of firm-provided training. in this paper, we argue that there are cultural differences in the norms favoring private over state provision of goods, which influence firms’ provision of training positions. exploiting national referenda, we first show that, within a narrow band around the language border, voters in german speaking municipalities value private over public provision of certain goods more than their french speaking counterparts. we then document a higher share of training firms on the german speaking side of the language border of 4.4 percentage points, or roughly 13%. this estimate is robust across different sets of controls, alternative specifications, and various subsamples. our results suggest an interplay between regional norms and local firms’ training behavior.in this paper, we introduce a new role of quotas, e.g. labor market quotas: the attentional role. we study the effect of quota implementation on the attention allocation strategy of a rationally inattentive (ri) manager. we find that quotas induce attention: a ri manager who is forced to fulfill a quota, unlike an unrestricted ri manager, never rejects minority candidates without acquiring information about them. we also demonstrate that in our model quotas are behaviorally equivalent to subsidies. in addition, we analyze different goals that the social planner can achieve by implementing quotas. first, quotas can eliminate statistical discrimination, i.e. make the chances of being hired independent from the group identity. second, when the hiring manager has inaccurate beliefs about the distribution of candidates' productivities, the social planner can make the manager behave as if she has correct beliefs. finally, we show how our results can be used to set a quota level that increases the expected value of the chosen candidates.the growing visibility of transgender women and men in the us challenges a dominant cultural model of gender in which dichotomous sex assigned at birth gives rise to dichotomous gender identity in adulthood. how are these groups – verbally marked as atypical relative to their cisgender counterparts – stereotyped? moreover, how do gender essentialist beliefs predict the content of such stereotypes? across four studies with diverse methods of stereotype measurement, we assessed characteristics that cisgender people associate with transgender women and men, comparing these to their stereotypes of cisgender women and men. in our final study, we directly assessed how cisgender people mentally position transgender groups relative to cisgender groups. across these studies, transgender categories were characterized in less positive ways than cisgender ones, and there was as a lower level of consensus about transgender than cisgender stereotypes. on average, transgender groups were de-gendered relative to cisgender groups, such that transgender women and men were not strongly differentiated on traditionally-gendered stereotype dimensions. finally, we showed that participants higher in gender essentialism (relative to participants lower in gender essentialism) evaluated cisgender groups more positively and were more likely to stereotype transgender groups based on their sex assigned at birth.despite the importance of absorptive capacity (ac) for firms’ competitiveness, its antecedents are not yet fully understood. ac is a multidimensional construct, consisting of a firm's capability to acquire and assimilate new external knowledge (potential ac), followed by its capability to transform and exploit it (realized ac). building on the insight that different ac dimensions vary in their nature and needs we predict that working with temporary employees will have an opposite effect on potential and realized ac. we test this proposition using firm-level data from the world bank's enterprise and innovation capability survey for 2,228 firms in nine developing countries. we indeed find knowledge acquisition to benefit and knowledge exploitation to suffer from a firm's reliance on temporary employees. our results thus identify a partial contradiction between the drivers of potential and realized ac. we find that a firm's integration mechanisms may potentially solve this contradiction. as all dimensions of ac are required for absorbing external knowledge, this research highlights an overlooked challenge.hiring discrimination towards (former) burnout patients has been extensively documented in the literature. to tackle this problem, it is important to understand the underlying mechanisms of such unequal hiring opportunities. therefore, we conducted a vignette experiment with 425 genuine recruiters and jointly tested the potential stigma against job candidates with a history of burnout that were mentioned earlier in the literature. we found candidates revealing a history of burnout elicit perceptions of requiring work adaptations, likely having more unpleasant collaborations with others as well as diminished health, autonomy, ability to work under pressure, leadership capacity, manageability, and learning ability, when compared to candidates with a comparable gap in working history due to physical injury. led by perceptions of a reduced ability to work under pressure, the tested perceptions jointly explained over 90 % of the effect of revealing burnout on the probability of being invited to a job interview. in addition, the negative effect on interview probability of revealing burnout was stronger when the job vacancy required higher stress tolerance. in contrast, the negative impact of revealing burnout on interview probability appeared weaker when recruiters were women and when recruiters had previously had personal encounters with burnout.artificial intelligence (ai) is increasingly used in personnel selection to automate decision-making. initial evidence points to negative effects of automating these procedures on applicant experiences. however, the effect of the prospect of automated procedures on job-seekers’ pre-process perceptions (e.g., organizational attractiveness) and intentions (to apply for the advertised job) is still unclear.
                  we conducted three experiments (study 1 and study 2 as within-subjects designs, study 3 as a between-subjects design; n
                     1 = 36, n
                     2 = 44, n
                     3 = 172) systematically varying the information in job advertisements on the automation of different stages of the selection process (study 1: screening stage conducted by a human vs. a non-specified agent vs. an ai; study 2 and study 3: human screening and human interview vs. ai screening and human interview vs. ai screening and ai interview).
                  results showed small negative effects of screening conducted by an ai vs. a human (study 1, study 2, study 3), but stronger negative effects when also interviews were conducted by an ai vs. a human (study 2, study3) on job-seekers pre-process expectations, perceptions, and intentions.
                  possible reasons for these effects are discussed with special consideration of the different stages of the recruiting and selection process and explored with a qualitative approach in study 2.despite the extensive literature about the pervasiveness and impact of microaggressions in the workplace, little is known about what specific workplace interventions have been adopted to mitigate them and, for those adopted, whether the efforts are effective. given the nature of this special journal issue, we originally sought to answer this call by focusing solely on workplace interventions targeting microaggressions. however, it became clear that the relative paucity of such interventions (as documented in the literature) necessitated that we cast a broader net. we therefore present the results of a systematic review of studies that evaluate the effectiveness of workplace interventions focused on subtle bias and/or its behavioral manifestations. the review identified only six papers that met the inclusion criteria of: 1) reporting a real-world workplace intervention with a goal of reducing subtle bias and/or behavioral manifestations and 2) including a systematic evaluation of attitude, awareness, and/or behavioral change. multiple themes across the identified studies are summarized. the discussion addresses the dearth of well-documented interventions and examines lessons learned from existing interventions to inform the development of future training focused on microaggressions in order to contribute to long-lasting change.worker cooperatives seek both compliance with cooperative principles or “cooperativism” and economic efficiency. to fill the evidence gap on whether the two goals collide or coincide, we drawn on microdata including over 7,000 brazilian cooperatives. stochastic frontier models were used to estimate the relative level of efficiency and to relate it with cooperativism level measured as participatory decision-making and integration to cooperatives’ networks. results showed that the former dimension of cooperativism presented a positive effect that dominated the negative effect of network integration. so that efficiency (weakly) increased with an index aggregating the two cooperativism’s dimensions. this was coherent with case studies attesting brazilian cooperatives capacity to overcome threats to efficiency with organizational changes including the introduction of probation, dismissing and hiring of non-member workers, thus preserving core principles. results were also consistent with theoretical studies which both argue that shirking and high transaction costs are the main threats to efficiency facing cooperatives and also that these are mitigatable by common principles fostering consensus and a participatory environment minimizing conflicts and disclosing private information. government support to creation of cooperatives is recommendable as a poverty alleviation policy whether homogeneous social groups more prone to mutual trust are prioritized.economic transition in central and eastern europe (cee) has led to a dramatic increase in cee firms' participation in international markets. this applies to different types of firms – from large emerging market multinationals to small international new ventures. in this paper, we systematically review the research on cee outward internationalization, which we define as internationalization of cee-based firms in the form of exporting or fdi, and contribute to literature by providing a complete picture of the state of the art and outlining potential avenues for future research. we find that while the cee region has been described as a fruitful ground for developing new and testing existing theories, it heavily loads on the latter. we suggest that greater reliance on theories and concepts from the field of entrepreneurship and a stronger focus on internationalization decision processes might further enrich our understanding of internationalization from cee.acquisitions are risky events but not all acquisitions involve the same levels of risk. we suggest that the announced acquisition motive – the ‘why’ of the acquisition – is an important risk signal. we categorize acquisition motives and distinguish between acquisitions with ‘pure explore’ and ‘pure exploit’ motives. recognizing that most acquisitions have multiple motives, we identify acquisitions with ‘ambidextrous’ motives – that is different combinations of explorative and exploitative motives – too. then, building on recent contributions to signaling theory, we argue that the ‘why’ will matter more, if the ‘where’ pertains to a high-risk setting. we measure this using target-to-acquirer industry relatedness. we find that the market reacts more positively to pure acquisitions, aimed at exploration or exploitation, compared to ambidextrous acquisitions. we show that the market reacts more positively to ambidextrous acquisitions orientated towards exploitation than ambidextrous acquisitions orientated toward exploration. finally, we find that relatedness moderates this relationship, in that the market is more willing to tolerate exploration in a related industry. our core contribution is to the literatures on acquisition motives and ambidexterity. we provide new insights into the incidence of specific motives, the ways in which they are mixed, and the market's reaction to their announcement. in addition, we contribute to the emerging literature that takes on behavioral perspective of market reactions by showing that the ‘why’ and ‘where’ of an acquisition matter.this paper investigates the extent to which female chief financial officers (cfos) affect corporate leverage. we examine female cfos in uk firms and find that they significantly reduce the leverage of the firm; however, a female cfo's ability to influence corporate leverage is moderated by the senior decision-making environment in the firm. in particular, female cfos are more effective in reducing leverage in firms with boards that are diverse with respect to gender, nationality and age, and in firms where the chief executive officer (ceo) is not overly powerful. in addition, we find that externally appointed female cfos reduce leverage more, in line with them having less allegiances to other top managers and greater scope to deviate from existing policies. our work contributes to the literature by examining the conditions under which gender-specific risk-taking preferences lead to observable effects on corporate outcomes.ranking items is a vital component in almost every application dealing with selecting the most suitable items among a pool of candidates. yet, specific individuals or groups may be systematically disadvantaged in getting the opportunity of appearing on the ranking list. the fair ranking problem aims at mitigating the bias imposed on protected groups (i.e., disadvantaged groups) while preserving the total quality of the ranking list as high as possible. fa*ir is one of the existing algorithms, which finds the exact solutions for only one protected group, considering a given minimum number of protected items at every prefix of a ranking list. however, when an item belongs to more than two protected groups achieving optimal solutions gets more difficult. this paper proposes an algorithm called fargo, a fair ranking algorithm based on the genetic algorithm (ga) enhanced by the simulated annealing (sa) that is able to handle any number of protected groups. a new objective function is also proposed by incorporating the main goals of the problem, which is utilized as fargo's fitness function. furthermore, a novel evaluation metric named expected gain ratio (egr) is introduced to assess a fair ranking algorithm's output. experimental results on real-world datasets demonstrate that fargo attains comparative performance with fa*ir for one protected group and finds near-optimal solutions for more than one protected group in terms of ndcg and egr. note that involving other concepts such as exposure is not a matter of this paper and can be an interesting subject for further studies.the seller's price concession reflects the existence of asymmetric information in the second-hand housing market, and it is beneficial to study the influence of the broker's commission incentive source on the information transmission in the process of second-hand housing transactions. this study examined 310,332 transactions in 17 cities, using the spatio-temporal autoregressive model. results mainly revealed price concession under the both-sides broker commission arrangement was 1.64% significantly lower than that under the buyer-side commission. the broker commission incentive has a moderating effect on the transmission of market information during transactions, whereas the both-sides commission leads to an increase in the effect of objective market conditions and reduces the difference of effects of individual factors on price concessions. an exogenous demand shock may lead to a change in the relationship between brokers' actions and sellers' pricing strategies. the implications will serve to improve the norms of and transparency in the second-hand housing transaction market, and resolve the disparity between the broker agent mode and commission incentive scheme.this study examined the effects of ethnicity on victim-blaming in a case of stabbing by addressing victim and offender ethnicity as well as observer ethnicity and religion. jewish (n = 285), muslim arab (n = 249), and christian arab (n = 51) students from israeli universities and colleges read a single stabbing scenario, in which we manipulated victim (arab/jewish) and offender ethnicity (african/arab/jewish). the results showed that participants blamed a jewish victim more than an arab victim. also, our findings indicated that christian arabs expressed significantly higher victim-blaming than jews. however, victim-blaming among christian arabs did not significantly differ from victim-blaming among muslim arabs, and victim-blaming among muslim arabs did not significantly differ from victim-blaming among jews. furthermore, the interactions between observer and victim ethnicity and between observer and offender ethnicity were significant. the discussion addresses the findings in the context of prejudice against members of african and arab communities, the black sheep effect, and defensive attribution. in addition, the discussion suggests that observer ethnic and religious background may be related to blame-attribution mode: fixed (not affected by victim and offender ethnicity) or modular (affected by victim and offender ethnicity). from the practical standpoint, our findings suggest a need for further education on prejudice against minorities and promoting ethnic diversity among practitioners assisting and treating victims.to promote upward mobility for the working-class, much effort has focused on making higher education more widely accessible. however, upward mobility is also powerfully determined by processes that occur after college, when individuals launch their work careers. in the current study, college students who were about to enter the labor market completed mock job interviews while being videotaped. supporting cultural mismatch theory (stephens, townsend, et al., 2012), participants from working-class backgrounds displayed less disjoint agentic behavior during their interviews (e.g., less assertive behavior). this led observers to evaluate them as less intelligent and socio-emotionally skilled, and led professional hiring managers to view them as less worthy of hire – even though working-class individuals were as intelligent and more socio-emotionally skilled than their upper-class counterparts (study 1). however, when hiring managers were told to place more value on cooperation and teamwork rather than competition and individualism, individuals who displayed low disjoint agency did not face the same bias (study 2). this suggests that the bias against individuals from working-class backgrounds observed in study 1 can be mitigated.we investigate the changes in the self-citation behavior of italian professors following the introduction of a citation-based incentive scheme, for national accreditation to academic appointments. previous contributions on self-citation behavior have either focused on small samples or relied on simple models, not controlling for enough confounding factors. the present work adopts a complex statistics model implemented on bibliometric individual data for over 15,000 italian professors. controlling for a number of covariates (number of citable papers published by the author; presence of international authors; number of co-authors; degree of the professor's specialization), the average increase in the number of self-citations per paper following introduction of the national scientific accreditation (asn) is of 9.5%. the increase is common to all disciplines and academic ranks, albeit with diverse magnitude. moreover, the increase is sensitive to the relative incentive, depending on the status of the scholar with respect to the asn. a further analysis shows that there is much heterogeneity in the individual patterns of self-citing behavior, albeit with very few outliers.black people engage in a variety of behaviors to avoid stereotyping and promote a professional image in the workplace. racial codeswitching is one impression management strategy where black people adjust their self-presentation to receive desirable outcomes (e.g., perceived professionalism) through mirroring the norms, behaviors, and attributes of the dominant group (i.e., white people) in specific contexts. in this study, we examine whether racial codeswitching enhances perceived professionalism for black employees. we investigate black and white participants' perceptions of racial codeswitching and subsequent evaluations of professionalism through manipulating three behaviors (e.g., adjusting style of speech, name selection, hairstyle) of a fictitious black coworker in two, between-subjects experimental studies using audio and written stimuli. results indicate that employees who engage in racial codeswitching are consistently perceived as more professional by both black and white participants compared to employees who do not codeswitch (studies 1 & 2). we also found that black participants perceive the non-codeswitching employee as more professional than white participants (studies 2a & 2b). black and white participants' evaluation of specific codeswitching behaviors varied with both groups supporting adjustment of speech, opposing adjusting one's name, and diverging on wearing natural hairstyles (studies 1 & 2). although racial codeswitching is presented as an impression management strategy, it may reinforce white professional standards and generate social and psychological costs for black employees. implications of our work for impression management and impression formation are further discussed.the extant literature reports inconsistent results regarding the effect of employee gender on customers' attitudes and behaviors. furthermore, the previous research on congruency bias has mainly focused on female-dominant jobs. to address these issues, this study examined how customers' gender stereotypes affect their service evaluations and revisit intentions. grounded in role congruity theory, congruency bias, and justification-suppression models, the results showed that employee gender and gender congruency with the norm for the job have differential impacts on customer evaluations. furthermore, this study found asymmetric impacts of congruency bias on customer experiences. for example, customers showed lower satisfaction and revisit intention when female employees failed in a male-dominant job than when their male counterparts did. however, they showed equal levels of satisfaction and revisit intention when male and female employees failed in a female-dominant job. the results provide important insights into how to reduce customers' gender bias toward different gender-dominated jobs.we show that introducing rational inattention into a model with uninsurable unemployment risk can generate multiple steady states, when the model with full information has a unique steady state. the model features persistent, heterogeneous labour market expectations, consistent with survey evidence. in a heterogeneous agent new keynesian model, rational inattention to the future hiring rate generates three steady states: an unemployment trap with mild deflation and a low (but positive) job hiring rate, a middle steady state with moderate employment and inflation, and an ‘employment trap’ with high employment and inflation. large mutations in the distribution of household beliefs can shift the economy between steady states.in this paper, we test whether dynastic leaders differ in their policymaking once in office. based on a large sample of italian dynastic mayors, we do not find differences in policymaking in terms of average revenue and expenditure. however, dynastic mayors increase spending and obtain higher transfers during the pre-electoral year. we suggest that they might behave more strategically both because they can (thanks to inherited political skills) and because of higher interest to stay in office (due to higher returns from politics).student perception surveys (sps) play an increasing assessment role envisioned to improve teaching. yet, it is unclear what their impact is on teachers' practice. data collected from australian teacher interviews, student focus groups and sps based on validated frameworks of effective teaching revealed no significant change in teachers' practice; illustrating student skepticism in the power of their voice, and teacher resistance and struggle to act upon sps. contributing to the literature on effective teaching, teacher resistance and student voice, the study's implications call for teacher education that treats sps as diagnostic tools that empower teachers in their search for autonomy.given overall lack of gender diversity in the venture capital and entrepreneurship industry shown in calder-wang and gompers (2017) we ask: what promotes greater gender diversity in hiring? does diversity lead to better firm performance and higher investment returns? in this paper, using a unique dataset of the gender of venture capital partners’ children, we find strong evidence that when partners have more daughters, the propensity to hire female partners increases. moreover, our instrumental variable results suggest that increased gender diversity improves deal and fund performance. lastly, the effects are primarily driven by the gender of senior partners’ children.background
                  child maltreatment disproportionately affects families experiencing poverty and structural discrimination, including african american (aa) families. the generosity of temporary assistance for needy families (tanf) may reduce child maltreatment disparities.
               
                  objective
                  our aim is to understand tanf's impact on the mother's perpetration of child maltreatment and whether the effect differs across aa and white mothers.
               
                  participants and setting
                  participants are 2457 primary caregiving mothers participating in waves 3 (2001−2003), 4 (2003–2006), and 5 (2007–2010) of the u.s.-based fragile families and child wellbeing birth cohort study.
               
                  methods
                  we use a difference-in-differences study design to estimate overall and race-specific effects of tanf policies on caregivers' self-report of child neglect and physical and psychological maltreatment measured by the child-parent conflict tactics scale. state-level tanf policy exposures include the tanf-to-poverty ratio (tpr), maximum cash benefits, time limits, sanctions, diversion payments, and family caps.
               
                  results
                  a $100 increase in tanf benefits was associated with a reduction of 1.8 reported physical abuse events (beta = −1.80, 95% ci (−3.29, −0.31)). imposing a time limit on tanf receipt was associated with an increase of 2.3 reported physical abuse events (beta = 2.27, 95% ci (0.04, 4.50)). no significant differences were found for aa mothers versus white mothers.
               
                  conclusions and relevance
                  increasing tanf cash benefits should be prioritized to reduce poverty-related child maltreatment disparities. tanf time limits should be reconsidered.advances in artificial intelligence are increasingly leading to the automation and augmentation of decision processes in work contexts. although research originally generally focused upon decision-makers, the perspective of those targeted by automated or augmented decisions (whom we call “second parties”) and parties who observe the effects of such decisions (whom we call “third parties”) is now growing in importance and attention. we review the expanding literature investigating reactions to automated and augmented decision-making by second and third parties. specifically, we explore attitude (e.g., evaluations of trustworthiness), perception (e.g., fairness perceptions), and behavior (e.g., reverse engineering of automated decision processes) outcomes of second and third parties. additionally, we explore how characteristics of the a) decision-making process, b) system, c) second and third party, d) task, and e) outputs and outcomes moderate these effects, and provide recommendation for future research. our review summarizes the state of the literature in these domains, concluding a) that reactions to automated decisions differ across situations in which there is remaining human decision control (i.e., augmentation contexts), b) that system design choices (e.g., transparency) are important but underresearched, and c) that the generalizability of findings might suffer from excessive reliance on specific research methodologies (e.g., vignette studies).in situations (over-)taxing working memory (wm), offloading cognitive burdens and operations onto an interactive technological device could be key to success. technological support allowing external storage and manipulation of information like in wm could offer even greater benefits in these demanding situations, where reducing wm burdens is essential for task performance, than in less demanding situations. however, the relationship between technological offloading support and wm load has not been systematically examined. this study (n = 138) therefore investigated the effectiveness of self-directed structuring functions allowing the manipulation of information on a multi-touch table to support complex decision-making under induced low and high wm load (contrasted with no self-structuring support). individuals equipped with self-structuring demonstrated deeper information processing irrespective of load. measures for updating of mental representations showed partially higher effectiveness of self-structuring support under high load. descriptive statistics for correct decisions could show self-structuring helping to maintain or even improve performance especially under high wm load, while corresponding inference statistics could not. thus, results for correct decisions were inconclusive. detailed process analyses showed that specific structuring strategies rather than overall structuring amount were related to better decisions and point out possibilities to increase self-structuring effectiveness.context:
                  recruiters and practitioners are increasingly relying on online activities of developers to find a suitable candidate. past empirical studies have identified technical and soft skills that managers use in online peer production sites when making hiring decisions. however, finding candidates with relevant skills is a labor-intensive task for managers, due to the sheer amount of information online peer production sites contain.
               
                  objective:
                  we designed a profile aggregation tool—visual resume—that aggregates contribution information across two types of peer production sites: a code hosting site (github) and a technical q&a forum (stack overflow). visual resume displays summaries of developers’ contributions and allows easy access to their contribution details. it also facilitates pairwise comparisons of candidates through a card-based design. we present the motivation for such a design and design guidelines for creating such recruitment tool.
               
                  methods:
                  we performed a scenario-based evaluation to identify how participants use developers’ online contributions in peer production sites as well as how they used visual resume when making hiring decisions.
               
                  results:
                  our analysis helped in identifying the technical and soft skill cues that were most useful to our participants when making hiring decisions in online production sites. we also identified the information features that participants used and the ways the participants accessed that information to select a candidate.
               
                  conclusions:
                  our results suggest that visual resume helps in participants evaluate cues for technical and soft skills more efficiently as it presents an aggregated view of candidate’s contributions, allows drill down to details about contributions, and allows easy comparison of candidates via movable cards that could be arranged to match participants’ needs.background
                  the literature shows that female surgeons have lower operative volumes than male surgeons. since volume is dependent on new patient referrals for most surgeons, inequities in referrals may contribute to this employment disparity.
               
                  methods
                  using 1997–2018 data from a large medical center, we examined the number of new patient referrals for surgeons. multivariate linear analysis was performed, adjusting for surgeon race, calendar year, seniority, and clinical subspecialty.
               
                  results
                  a total of 121 surgeons across 12,410 surgeon-months were included. overall, surgeons had a median of 14 new patient referrals per month (interquartile range (iqr) = 7, 27). on adjusted analysis, female surgeons saw 5.4 fewer new patient referrals per month (95% ci -6.4 to −4.5).
               
                  conclusion
                  female surgeons, with equal training and seniority, received fewer new patient referrals than their male peers, and this may contribute to female surgeon under-employment. surgeon gender may be one of the factors contributing to this differential referral pattern.taking a worker-centric approach, with evidence based on the experiences of working individuals, the current study examines the age-related stereotypes of jobs, the characteristics of age-stereotyped jobs, and the consequences of occupying them. in study 1, we utilize samples of working adults from the us, turkey, and malaysia to establish validation evidence for a spectrum of 160 jobs (n = 123 raters per job). study 1 findings indicate that entry-level jobs and jobs requiring manual labor or the use of technology are younger-typed, whereas senior level jobs and jobs requiring large investments in training or education are older-typed. the age-typing of jobs was found to be similar across countries for the vast majority of jobs. we then provide criterion validity evidence in study 2, by testing the interactive effects of chronological age, job age-type, and sex on psychological age and perceived age and sex discrimination across samples of workers from these same three countries (n = 1469). results upheld theoretical predictions based upon career timetables theory, prototype matching theory, and intersectional salience of ageism theory. the interactive effects of chronological age and job age-type were stronger for women than for men; the hypothesized patterns of effects were overall consistent for women but not for men.in this viewpoint article we discuss algorithmic decision-making systems (adms), which we view as organizational sociotechnical systems with their use in practice having consequences within and beyond organizational boundaries. we build a framework that revolves around the adms lifecycle and propose that each phase challenges organizations with “choices” related to technical and processual characteristics – ways to design, implement and use these systems in practice. we argue that it is important that organizations make these strategic choices with awareness and responsibly, as adms’ consequences affect a broad array of stakeholders (the workforce, suppliers, customers and society at-large) and involve ethical considerations. with this article we make two main contributions. first, we identify key choices associated with the design, implementation and use in practice of adms in organizations, that build on past literature and are tied to timely industry-related examples. second, we provide is scholars with a broad research agenda that will promote the generation of new knowledge and original theorizing within the domain of the strategic applications of adms in organizations.with the increasing use of ai in algorithmic decision making (e.g. based on neural networks), the question arises how bias can be excluded or mitigated. there are some promising approaches, but many of them are based on a ”fair” ground truth, others are based on a subjective goal to be reached, which leads to the usual problem of how to define and compute ”fairness”. the different functioning of algorithmic decision making in contrast to human decision making leads to a shift from a process-oriented to a result-oriented discrimination assessment. we argue that with such a shift society needs to determine which kind of fairness is the right one to choose for which certain scenario. to understand the implications of such a determination we explain the different kinds of fairness concepts that might be applicable for the specific application of hiring decisions, analyze their pros and cons with regard to the respective fairness interpretation and evaluate them from a legal perspective (based on eu law).we investigate whether introducing the collateral menus of liquid assets (e.g., inventory and accounts receivable) influences corporate hiring decisions. our identification scheme treats the enactment of china's property law in 2007 as a quasi-natural experiment and then conducts a difference-in-differences estimation. the results show that firms with less net fixed assets hire more workers, particularly for firms with tighter financial constraints, higher labor intensity and those located in cities with stricter law enforcement, greater fiscal pressure and lower bank density. further analysis shows that liquid assets help firms obtain more debt, save less cash, decrease the cash flow sensitivity of cash and investment and invest more in fixed assets, consistent with the collateral channel. in addition, a significant convergence of labor productivity across firms illustrates that the property law also has a labor reallocation effect. our findings shed light on the importance of expanding collateral menus in maintaining employment during the covid-19 pandemic.we investigate if the perceived attractiveness of mutual fund managers influences mutual fund flows. we hand-collect professional photographs of managers and use machine learning algorithms to develop two objective proxies of attractiveness. we find that, after controlling for fund characteristics, performance measures and manager characteristics, mutual funds managed by ‘attractive’ managers receive higher fund flows. our results are robust to matched sample analysis, heckman two-stage selection, alternate model specifications. attractiveness bias is predominantly witnessed within retail investors and does not entail superior fund performance. our results suggest that mutual fund investors exhibit a bias for seemingly attractive mutual fund managers.this paper examines the effects of cfo narcissism on audit fees in china. using the size of cfo signatures in annual audit reports to measure individual narcissism, we find that cfo narcissism is associated with higher audit fees. we find empirical evidence that cfo narcissism significantly increases the audit fees of listed companies, and this effect is stronger in state-owned enterprises. this paper also explores the mediating effects of financial information and the engagement of prestigious big-4 and big-10 firms. the results show that companies with narcissistic cfos have lower quality financial information and prefer more prestigious firms, which leads to higher audit fees. this research highlights the importance of cfo narcissism in corporate performance and provides new evidence that will be useful for listed companies that plan to hire senior executives.the choices associated with a chief diversity officer (cdo) appointment can significantly impact firm performance. however, research examining this link is scarce. to bridge this gap, we draw uponstakeholder,upper echelons,and institutional theoriesto examine howchoices related to cdo appointments, namely, gender, type of hire, and type of position, impact firm performance. using data from fortune 1000 and s&p 500 u.s. firms on 101 cdo appointments,we investigate howcdo appointment choicesinfluence firm performance. our results indicate that appointment of a female cdo is not associated with a significantly better firm performance than hiring a male cdo. however, consistent with our hypotheses, we found evidence that both - the type of cdo position and the type of hire are important to firm performance. notably, a firm's performance gains are substantially increased when the firm hires a cdo externally to fill a newly created cdo position.the purpose of this article is to evaluate the language content of job postings as a potential explanation for the gender imbalance in the finance industry. we conduct two interlinked studies of internship job postings by finance companies that assess the use and effects of agentic (e.g., ambitious) versus communal (e.g., caring) language. we find high levels of agentic language within finance job postings, and our results reveal that women applicants are more likely to perceive a higher level of fit with the position and exhibit an interest in applying to internship postings that are high in communal language and low in agentic language suggesting a current mismatch between our findings and current practice. we discuss the theoretical implications associated with the wording of internship job postings as well as implications for finance recruiters looking to increase the gender diversity of their workforce.temporarily going abroad is widely believed to increase academics' research performance. however, our understanding of the mechanisms linking academics' temporary stays abroad and subsequent research performance is tenuous. we investigate to what extent the accumulation of career capital (i.e., human and social capital) links temporary stays abroad and subsequent research performance by focusing on the conditions under which career capital is enhanced. using matching and mediation analysis on a sample of 277 academics in german-speaking europe, we show that it is the accumulation of social capital (i.e., contacts and social networks) rather than the accumulation of human capital (i.e., knowledge and skills) that accounts for the positive performance effects of temporarily going abroad. furthermore, our study highlights the conditions (e.g., duration and number of stays abroad, number of different host institutions) that facilitate the accumulation of career capital during a stay abroad. thus, our study informs academics on how to build their career capital and thus push their performance by temporarily going abroad.this study investigates the influence of female directors on the acquisition decisions of australian companies. we use a dual approach, conducting empirical analyses while exploring the views of industry experts with extensive acquisition experience. we find that the market perceives acquisitions conducted by acquirers with female board members to be valuecreating decisions. industry experts believe that female directors apply a broader perspective in evaluating acquisitions without falling into the &lsquo;deal frenzy&rsquo; trap, a common occurrence in male directors. several female directorship traits, combined with enhanced efficiency, contribute to tangible benefits offered by female directors in acquisitions.firms disclose information either voluntarily or due to the regulator's mandatory requirements, and such disclosures form good sources to know the prospects of a firm. information in the disclosures and analysts' opinions influence investor-trading behavior, and consequently, affects the asset prices. as sentiments factored in disclosures are a source of market action, this study aims to capture the sentiments from disclosure information to assess asset prices' impact. the paper adopts a deep neural network-based prediction model for conducting sentiment analysis on heterogeneous datasets. we construct a sentiment simulation model of voluntary disclosures to know whether the managers can use the market sentiment as a strategic input to boost market performance by suitably drafting the tone and content of disclosures without compromising their quality and veracity. the deep neural networks with lstm algorithm is found to outperform the deep neural networks with rnn and other baseline machine learning classifiers in terms of predictive accuracy of the nse nifty50. the variable importance computed also validates that market news, combined with historical indicators, predicts the stock market trend closer to the actual trend.prior work suggests that high-status group members are favored for hierarchy-maintaining roles, while low-status group members are favored for hierarchy-attenuating ones—but the mechanisms driving this phenomenon are largely unknown. the current work examines this phenomenon in the domain of race, testing three potential mechanisms: role status, representativeness, and hierarchy profiling. according to a role status account, hierarchy-maintaining roles are seen as higher-status than hierarchy-attenuating ones, driving effects. a representativeness account suggests that hierarchy-maintaining roles are seen as including more white (or fewer minority) job-holders than hierarchy-attenuating ones, driving effects. finally, a hierarchy profiling account suggests that evaluators see the typical hire for hierarchy-maintaining roles as more conservative (or less liberal), driving effects. in three studies, white evaluators rated a white male applicant a better fit for a hierarchy-maintaining role (e.g., ceo of a hedge fund) than a hierarchy-attenuating one (e.g., ceo of a nonprofit). there was, however, no impact of a role's perceived impact on inequality on ratings of black male or latino applicant fit (studies 1–3). this effect persisted regardless of role status (study 2), negating a role status account. however, a final study supported representativeness and hierarchy profiling accounts. white evaluators rated the typical hire for a hierarchy-maintaining role as more white and conservative, mediating ratings of white applicant fit (study 3). three supplemental studies replicated all results. findings reveal the mechanisms that can hold social hierarchy in place, keeping high-status group members in hierarchy-maintaining roles and low-status group members in hierarchy-attenuating ones.using the opening of high-speed rail (hsr) services in china as a natural experiment, we examine whether the exogenous increase in geographic proximity facilitates firms in making cross-region merger and acquisition (m&a) decisions. we argue that the opening of hsr can reduce the degree of distance-induced information asymmetry between bidders and targets by reducing travel time and costs. using the multi-period differences-in-differences (did) model, we find that the number of firms being targeted by non-local bidder firms significantly increases following the opening of hsr in the local city. the result is robust to the inclusion of control variables, alternative measures, different model specifications, and a propensity score matching did model. further analyses show that the effect of hsr on facilitating cross-region m&as is more pronounced when non-local bidder firms rely more on hsr in acquiring information about the distant target firms. in addition, we find that non-local bidder firms benefit from the opening of hsr by having superior post-merger performance, suggesting that the increased geographic proximity due to the opening of hsr leads to more efficient resource allocation decisions by firms.people of all genders regularly pursue both personal and professional objectives. to the latter, research has documented substantial barriers for women, especially when they make mistakes. as articulated by role congruity theory, their stereotypically communal nature appears at odds with the agentic objectives frequently seen as inherent to the workplace. to the former, though, how are women (versus men) evaluated in pursuit of communal objectives? we propose that observers are more likely to see men (versus women) as less successful after mistakes in the interpersonal realm. nine preregistered experiments (n = 5400) test this proposition by targeting, specifically, the use of humor. they provide evidence for a process model by which women (versus men) who falter are still seen as more attentive, causing their mistakes to seem less substantial and bolstering downstream evaluations of them. implications for gender, humor, and mistakes are discussed.the innovation activities of entrepreneurial enterprises face high uncertainty. while entrepreneurs are experts in this aspect, venture capital (vc) still plays an important role. this study attempts to verify the direct and indirect effects and transmission mechanism through which vc promotes innovation. the interactive relation between vc and uncertainty is examined especially. using the data of companies listed on china’ s growth enterprise market (gem), empirical analysis is conducted based on a newly constructed composite weighted innovation index. the results show that vc involvement can significantly improve the innovation level of entrepreneurial enterprises. after multiple rounds of robustness tests and resolving self-selection bias and endogeneity problems using propensity score matching and a treatment effects model, we find the core conclusions remain the same. further analyses reveal that the greater the degree of uncertainty faced by enterprises, the higher the innovation level. vc can strengthen this positive relation even further. additionally, vc positively moderates the incentive effect of management shareholdings on innovation, while innovation is indirectly promoted by the partially mediating mechanism of research and development investment. from the perspectives of innovation and uncertainty, this paper deepens our understanding of vc value-added services and provides policy suggestions about how both entrepreneurial and financing parties can cooperate in innovation and create value jointly.the last decade has seen a rush to address the causes and consequences of bias in applied contexts across the world. when and why might these initiatives promote attitudes and behavior that align with egalitarian goals? a common assumption is that increasing awareness of bias can motivate control over prejudiced responding. however, learning that one's actions are biased is threatening, and often motivates a range of self-protective responses to buffer that threat. in the current research, we tested a strategy for reducing such defensive responding and increasing the kind of awareness central to contemporary theories of prejudice regulation and egalitarian behavior. four experiments (n > 2500) and a mini meta-analysis demonstrate that interventions that (a) decrease perceived moral blameworthiness for having bias and (b) increase the perceived ability to control bias, can reduce defensive responding and increase awareness both in the short-term and approximately 6 months later. interventions that minimize threat and facilitate efficacy can motivate increased bias awareness and commitment to egalitarian values.as research on student evaluations of teaching (set) has dominated our understanding of teaching evaluation, debate over set implementation has turned attention away from basic principles for appraising employee performance as established in human resources literature. considering set research and its practical significance in isolation from relevant human resources literature not only risks unlawful remedies for issues such as bias in set but also risks replacing one form of bias with another. meanwhile, the full potential of human resources tools to support consistent evaluation of teaching remains unrealized. to address this gap, this article clarifies how teaching evaluation can be conducted as sound performance appraisal by deploying set and peer review of teaching within a larger framework of established human resources techniques. a review of recent literature articulates prominent themes in research on set and peer review of teaching and outlines key principles for performance appraisal and performance management. those principles are used to analyze representative faculty evaluation policies and procedures and clarify the weaknesses of both traditional and recently revised approaches to teaching evaluation. the final section elaborates performance appraisal techniques relevant to teaching evaluation. these include planful use of results and/or behavior approaches to performance appraisal, robust rating instruments for behavioral performance appraisal, targeted collection of information from multiple stakeholders, and job analysis. efforts to de-emphasize quantitative set data to address issues such as bias can be strengthened through the incorporation of performance appraisal tools that clearly articulate performance criteria and standards and that gather both qualitative and quantitative data on employee performance.criteria for assessing candidates are essential elements for the functioning of evaluation practices in academia. this article addresses a relevant issue of academia: the preference for evaluation criteria for tenure and promotion, as reported by female and male academics employed at spanish universities. we use survey data from 4,460 faculty members, testing whether there are differences in the evaluation criteria that women and men prefer and exploring the factors that account for such preferences. our focus is on bibliometric evaluation criteria. we propose an analytical model that considers the influence of career and quality factors, values about universalism and the mission of universities, and beliefs about meritocracy in the context of the academic evaluation system. we use a binary logistic model to explain the preference for bibliometric criteria and develop the comparisons by gender using predicted probabilities and marginal effects for estimating the difference. we find that female academics do not have the same preferences as men and report lower preferences for bibliometrics. however, women at the highest research quality levels have similar probabilities than males to prefer bibliometric criteria for evaluation.it is important to explore how scientists decide their research agenda and the corresponding consequences, as their decisions collectively shape contemporary science. there are studies focusing on the overall performance of individuals with different problem choosing strategies. here we ask a slightly different but relatively unexplored question: how is a scientist’s change of research agenda associated with her change of scientific performance. using publication records of over 14,000 authors in physics, we quantitatively measure the extent of research direction change and the performance change of individuals. we identify a strong positive correlation between the direction change and impact change. scientists with a larger direction change not only are more likely to produce works with increased scientific impact compared to their past ones, but also have a higher growth rate of scientific impact. on the other hand, the direction change is not associated with productivity change. those who stay in familiar topics do not publish faster than those who venture out and establish themselves in a new field. the gauge of research direction in this work is uncorrelated with the diversity of research agenda and the switching probability among topics, capturing the evolution of individual careers from a new point of view. though the finding is inevitably affected by the survival bias, it sheds light on a range of problems in the career development of individual scientists.research has shown that hiring discrimination is a barrier for older job candidates in many oecd countries. however, little research has delved into why these job candidates face discrimination. therefore, we have conducted an online scenario experiment involving recruiters to empirically investigate 15 potential stigmas related to older age drawn from a systematic review of the literature. we found that older age particularly signals to recruiters that the applicant has lower technological skills, flexibility, and trainability levels. together, these perceptions explain about 41% of the effect of age on the probability of being invited to a job interview. additionally, we found that the negative association between age and the invitation to interview probability is smaller when recruiters work for firms with a higher percentage of older employees.vignette methodology is used to examine how the personal characteristics of investors and financial advisors contribute to portfolio recommendations, and the judgements that advisors make about investment knowledge and control of prospective millionaire uk clients. we find that advisors use investor characteristics to make recommendations broadly in line with economic theory and regulatory requirements. however, women are judged less knowledgeable and in control of their investments than equivalent men. they also receive portfolio recommendations with slightly lower risk profiles. portfolio recommendations vary by advisor, with experienced advisors and those with wealthier clients recommending higher risk portfolios. unmeasured advisor variables also impact on judgements and recommendations. these findings have relevance to the wealth management industry and regulators, in focusing attention on the conscious and unconscious influences on the judgements advisors make about their clients.the standard labor supply model ignores possible inertia originating from individuals’ previous labor supply decisions and assumes immediate adjustments to policy reforms. in this study we develop a model where past labor market status have effects on present decisions: first, there is habit dependence in the taste for leisure; second, labor market opportunities reflect experiences of the previous period; and third, there is a disutility of deviating from the choice of last period (status quo). all these three components induce state dependence in labor supply behavior and gradual rather than immediate responses to tax and benefit reforms. the model is estimated with data of norwegian females over the period 2003 - 2009. simulation results from a tax rate change suggest that state dependence bring down the short-term (first-year) responses to one-third of the full effect, and the full effect is reached after about five years. our results also suggest that the disutility of deviating from status quo, modeled as a fixed cost of switching, is the dominant driving force of sluggishness in labor supply responses.job search is a demanding and often demotivating process, challenging job-seekers' self-regulation. particularly, mature-aged job seekers face lower reemployment chances – and may benefit from strategies known from the lifespan literature. the current study examined whether and when the use of aging strategies (elective selection, loss-based selection, optimization, and compensation; soc strategies) can support mature-aged job seekers in their self-regulated job search process (goal establishment and goal pursuit). we collected data from 659 mature-aged job seekers in three countries (germany, united kingdom, and united states) at four different times over two months. results of multi-level modeling showed no support for gain-oriented strategies, namely elective selection (prioritizing one instead of multiple goals) and optimization (investing every effort to reach one's goal). in contrast, loss-oriented strategies, namely loss-based selection (prioritizing or selecting a new goal after a setback) and compensation (using new or previously unused means in the face of obstacles), supported mature-aged job seekers' goal establishment and goal pursuit. moreover, with increasing age, mature-aged job seekers reported lower reemployment efficacy (the confidence to find a new job), which moderated the relation between compensation with goal pursuit. compensation was particularly helpful for mature-aged job seekers' goal pursuit in weeks in which they reported lower (vs. higher) reemployment efficacy. these findings highlight the importance of loss-oriented aging strategies as beneficial coping strategies. with regard to practice, the present study speaks to the benefits of soc strategies and points to the development of interventions targeted toward mature-aged job seekers.this study provides three real-effort experiments on how a forced distribution rating system (fdrs) influences team collaboration. in the first and the second experiment, we examine the performance implications of an fdrs in a card sequencing task (1) when working alone and (2) when working in a team. in the third experiment, we test how an fdrs affects knowledge sharing within teams. our findings show that an fdrs increases the speed of completing the card sequencing task when working alone and decreases the speed of completing the card sequencing task when working in a team. beyond that, we find that an fdrs also significantly decreases knowledge sharing within teams. as the fdrs was perceived as unfair in collaborative settings but not when working alone, we provide evidence on the role of perceived justice concerning the effects of an fdrs and shed light on the psychological and economic consequences of introducing an fdrs in environments where team collaboration is essential for success.the intention behind imposing quotas for women on corporate boards is to close the gender gap in economic participation and help women to be promoted within organizations. however, the broader social psychological literature lends support to ideas that affirmative action policies, such as quotas, may do more harm than good for the beneficiaries. we extend this idea beyond the affected beneficiaries and ask whether this unintended negative effect spills over to women who are not immediate targets of the quota, by signaling incompetence. we develop an experimental design to investigate whether the announcement (study 1) and the implementation (study 2) of a quota for women have a direct negative effect on performance evaluations and hence reinforce the existing gender bias in evaluation. we observed that the performance of women was evaluated significantly lower than that of men. however, this gender bias was limited to sequential (rating) evaluations and was not evident in joint (ranking) evaluations. the quota did not significantly influence the amount of this bias. in addition, we observed more pronounced sexism in males compared to females. results of study 2 gave a hint to an association between higher sexism and lower evaluations of women’s performance. we also found some evidence for a stronger evaluation bias in females when controlling for sexist attitudes. hence, our results imply that the bias, which is overall quite robust and strongly pronounced, is still affected by individual gender-related characteristics.this study introduces a new approach to measure effectiveness of teacher preparation programs (tpp) at u.s. universities by examining to what extent tpps produce employable teacher candidates. we use teacher vacancy-application data in wisconsin public schools from 2014–15 through 2016–17. we find that attending specific tpps makes a difference for novice teacher applicants’ hiring outcomes, but the competitiveness of these tpps is inextricable from their geographic locales. our findings complement the existing acontextual and absolute tpp rankings and suggest that graduates of tpps with strong school and community partnerships are more competitive in the local labor market.this research investigates how firm size and the type of offering (product or service) moderate the relationship between innovation strategy and performance. the results from two studies involving samples of managers of firms in the united states show that firm size and type of offering do indeed moderate the relationships between innovation strategy and performance and that dual moderating effects exist. the results challenge prevailing notions on expected benefits of exploration and exploitation strategies for smaller to larger firms. nonlinear moderating effects by firm size are revealed, which offer more nuanced insights than those presented in existing research. moreover, while it is generally presumed that service firms benefit primarily from an exploitation innovation strategy, the findings indicate that service firms actually benefit from an exploration innovation strategy regardless of size. the findings further suggest that the performance implications of innovation ambidexterity vary across contexts. managerial and research implications are discussed.a nearly universal trend in science today is the prominence of ever-increasing collaborative teams. hence, identifying the relative credit due to each collaborator of published studies is of high significance. although numerous methods have been employed to address this issue, allocating credit to all co-authors of new papers remains challenging. to address this cold-start issue, we introduce a credit allocation algorithm based on the co-citing network that captures the co-authors’ shared credit of a multi-authored publication. using the american physical society publication data, we validate the method by examining papers by nobel laureates. accordingly, we perform many experiments to demonstrate that the proposed method can be implemented on academic papers in any period after publication with a significantly higher degree of accuracy and robustness than the existing algorithms applied to new papers. this method enables us to explore the universal credit evolution pattern of scientific elites. importantly, by testing the relation between an author's credit and authorship byline, we observe that the first authors of papers are currently assigned less credit than in the early days with respect to physics. with collaboration and a large team set to dominate the agenda of the current science system, our study provides a more effective method for allocating early credit to co-authors of a paper, which may be beneficial to various academic activities, including faculty hiring, funding, and promotion decisions.despite increased awareness of the lack of gender equity in academia and a growing number of initiatives to address issues of diversity, change is slow, and inequalities remain. a major source of inequity is gender bias, which has a substantial negative impact on the careers, work-life balance, and mental health of underrepresented groups in science. here, we argue that gender bias is not a single problem but manifests as a collection of distinct issues that impact researchers’ lives. we disentangle these facets and propose concrete solutions that can be adopted by individuals, academic institutions, and society.despite the wide-ranging studies on corporate social responsibility (csr), firm performance, and organizational leadership (ol), there have been only a few studies examining the inter-relationship between them. accordingly, this investigation has tried to investigate how ol contributes to the firm's performance through the csr strategies. it has an internal orientation to csr motivations compared to the existing studies that mostly considered the external factors in implementing of csr in firms; also, it has a comprehensive view toward the firm's performance by considering both financial and non-financial aspects of performance. it could be said that this study has tried to answer the question of whether or not csr can be as a mediator between the ol and firm performance. data collection was performed from 285 manufacturing and consumer products firms located in malaysia during the four-month period of june–september of 2020. amos structural equation modeling (amos-sem) method was applied to analyze the model. following the baron and kenny approach in testing the hypotheses, it was found that the relationships of ol and financial performance, as well as ol and non-financial performance were partially mediated by csr. in addition, the non-financial performance was found as a full mediator between the ol and financial performance. further, the results revealed two full mediated relationships in this way that non-financial performance was a full mediator variable between csr and financial performance, as well as csr and non-financial performance which were found as two multiple full mediators between ol and financial performance. the results help malaysian managers to understand their current status, capabilities, strong points and weaknesses in leadership regarding to csr. moreover, due to the positive effects of csr on both firm's financial and non-financial performance, csr is recommended to be integrated in leadership style and the organizational strategies in order to having better performance.prosocial acts typically take the form of time- or money-donations. do third-parties differ in how they evaluate these different kinds of donations? here, we show that people view time-donations as more morally praiseworthy and more diagnostic of moral character than money-donations, even when the resource investment is comparable. this moral preference occurs because people perceive time-donations as signaling greater emotional investment in the cause and therefore better moral character; this occurs despite the (correct) belief that time-donations are typically less effective than money-donations (study 1). this effect in turn is explained by two mechanisms: people believe that time-donations are costlier even when their objective costs are equated, which happens because people rely on a lay theory associating time with the self (study 2). the more signaling power of time-donations has downstream implications for interpersonal attractiveness in a dating context (study 3a), employment decisions (study 3b), and donor decision-making (study 3). moreover, donors who are prompted with an affiliation rather (versus dominance) goal are likelier to favor time-donations (study 4). however, reframing money-donations in terms of time (e.g., donating a week’s salary) reduced and even reversed these effects (study 5). these results support theories of prosociality that place reputation-signaling as a key motivator of moral behavior. we discuss implications for the charity market and for social movements, such as effective altruism, that seek to maximize the social benefit of altruistic acts.this study focuses on how social networking site (sns) users’ perceived risk is affected by perceptions of the duality of potentially harmful events (cyber-attacks and privacy breaches) on sns and explores the potential threat sources that influence such perceptions. further, it examines the effects of perceived risk on sns members’ site use and the underlying mechanisms through which these effects are cast. the study finds that users’ perceived sns risk affects site use behavior through attitude as an important mediator and users’ concern regarding cyber-attacks (security) casts a greater impact than the concern regarding privacy breaches in shaping perceived sns risk.introduction
                  women's active participation is important for inclusive water, sanitation, and hygiene (wash) programs, yet gender roles that limit women's access to formal education and employment may reduce their skills, experience, and capacity for implementation. this paper explores differences between men and women implementers of rural wash programs in implementation approaches, challenges, and sources of support for implementation, and success in achieving program quality outcomes.
               
                  methods
                  we interviewed 18 men and 13 women in community-based implementation roles in four districts of nepal. we identified challenges and sources of support for implementation in four domains—informational, tangible, emotional, or companionship—following social support theory. we assessed successes at achieving intermediate implementation outcomes (e.g., adoption, appropriateness, sustainability) and long-term intervention outcomes (e.g., community cleanliness, health improvements).
               
                  results
                  women used relational approaches and leveraged social ties to encourage behavior change, while men used formative research to identify behavior drivers and sanctions to drive behavior change. women experienced stigma for working outside the home, which was perceived as a traditionally male role. companionship and emotional support from other women and male community leaders helped mitigate stigma and lack of informational support. women were also more likely to receive no or low financial compensation for work and had fewer opportunities for feedback and training compared to men. despite lack of support, women were motivated to work by a desire to build their social status, gain new knowledge, and break conventional gender roles.
               
                  conclusions
                  both men and women perceived that women were more effective than men at mobilizing widespread, sustained wash improvements, which was attributed to their successes using relational approaches and leveraging social ties to deliver acceptable and appropriate messages. their skills for motivating collective action indicate that they can be highly effective wash implementers despite lack of technical experience and training, and that women's active participation is important for achieving transformative community change.five empirical studies, including both laboratory experiments and an archival investigation, provide evidence that decision makers often fail to consider variability and skew when making judgments about performance. we term this distribution neglect. participants’ spontaneous explanations for group differences in elite achievement overwhelmingly invoked mean differences rather than group differences in variability, even when the complete distribution and summary statistics were provided (study 1). a longitudinal examination indicates that nba teams overweight average performance and underweight consistency of performance when deciding players’ contracts (study 2), providing evidence that neglecting variance information leads to suboptimal judgments. in a manufacturing scenario involving monitoring assembly line workers, participants were more accurate at identifying top (high mean) performers than consistent (low variability) performers (study 3). in a hiring simulation, decision makers were more likely to factor in variance when performance data was presented visually as a histogram (study 4). finally, participants’ spontaneous explanations for others’ self-assessments of ability assumed egocentric bias, when a skewed performance distribution was also a plausible contributor (study 5). individual differences (need for cognition) and task differences (such as style of information display) were associated with increased distribution-based reasoning in multiple studies, suggesting potential boundary conditions for further investigation. organizational implications, and additional potential remedies for distribution neglect, are discussed.indirect reciprocity – the notion that third-party observers offer rewards to prosocial actors – is known to increase levels of cooperative behavior. yet we know relatively little about how people decide to grant indirect reciprocity. this process is complex because it relies on assessing moral character, which is unobservable. in the current research, we identify a salient cue in the social environment that observers use to calibrate their indirect reciprocity: power differences. across three experiments, observers were less likely to offer indirect reciprocity to employees who targeted their generosity toward higher- rather than lower-power co-workers. indirect reciprocity was measured through the allocation of participants’ own financial resources (experiments 1 and 2), as well as behavioral intentions (experiment 3). experiment 3 also showed that this effect is driven by observers’ perceptions of actors’ motives, which inform assessments of moral character.lack of diversity in radiology is a public health problem and may be self perpetuating as diverse candidates view the field as hostile to their entry and advancement, and consequently do not apply into the field. solutions require understanding the obstacles, which range from enrollment in medical school to achieving leadership positions in radiology. an understanding of the effect of demographic data on diversity in radiology, disparate effects of step examinations, medical school grades and induction into academic honor societies, and existing faculty disparities will allow us to better recruit, train, and retain a diverse group of physicians in our field. the downstream effect of a diverse workforce is improvement in health outcomes and disparities in medical care for our communities.negotiation abilities are difficult to assess, and negotiation outcomes are difficult to predict. this leads to possible deficiencies in resource allocation for negotiation tasks. in this article, we discuss the merits of a data-based approach for the allocation of negotiators to negotiation tasks. we provide a framework for negotiation allocation management that includes a method for assessing negotiator strength. the negotiator strength measure compares observable negotiation outcomes relative to similar outcomes in similar situations. we provide examples for using our framework and show evidence for its appeal when using industry data. we discuss implications for managers and provide key takeaways.drawing from the resource-based view, signaling theory, and internationalization literatures, we argue that a key intangible resource – reputation – influences the decision to engage in cross-border acquisitions (cbas). reputation facilitates foreign market entry by reducing the risks and costs inherent in such strategic moves, while acting to curb potentially risky decisions. based on a longitudinal sample of 869 acquisitions conducted by european and us firms, our study confirms the inverted u-shaped relationship between a firm’s reputation and the likelihood of undertaking cbas. we also find that international experiential knowledge moderates the relationship between reputation and the likelihood of additional cbas. our research contributes to the growing literature on the influence of intangible strategic resources, especially that of reputation, on foreign market entry strategies.past research has documented where discrimination occurs or tested interventions that reduce discrimination. less is known about how discriminatory behavior emerges and the mechanisms through which successful interventions work. two studies (n > 4500) apply the diffusion decision model (ddm) to the judgment bias task, a measure of discrimination. in control conditions, participants gave preferential treatment (acceptance to a hypothetical honor society) to physically attractive applicants. ddm analyses revealed participants initially favored attractive candidates and attractiveness was accumulated as evidence of being qualified. two interventions—raising awareness of bias and asking for more deliberative judgments—reduced discrimination through separate mechanisms. raising awareness reduced biases in drift rates while increasing deliberation raised decision thresholds. this work offers insight into how discrimination emerges and may aid efforts to develop interventions to lessen discrimination.we add richness and depth to investor decision-making research by exploring the influence of entrepreneurs' use of ingratiation rhetoric in their investor pitch presentations on investor funding decisions. drawing on ingratiation theory, we model the effects of flattery, self-deprecation, opinion conformity, and self-promotion as distinct forms of ingratiation rhetoric. we do so independently and in tandem, conceptualizing the confluence of ingratiation forms as driving an overall aggregate effect on the amount of funding allocated by investors. we then theorize that entrepreneur charisma and entrepreneur performance are moderators of the aggregate effect. we test our model in the angel investment context with data from 789 entrepreneur pitch presentations to 27 investors on the shark tank television program from 2009 through 2020. we find that on their own, the different forms of ingratiation rhetoric have mixed effects, with flattery and self-deprecation negatively impacting investor funding amount and opinion conformity and self-promotion positively relating to funding amount. when used together, we find an overall negative effect, and this effect is positively moderated by entrepreneur charisma and entrepreneur performance. these findings shed new light on ingratiation rhetoric as a powerful force in entrepreneurs' efforts to secure funding.as social media use has grown over the past decade, both academics and practitioners have increasingly debated the appropriateness of using data from social networking sites in hiring contexts. although the use of social media in recruitment and staffing processes has become commonplace, a corresponding increase in empirical investigations of this practice has not been achieved. now more than ever, industrial-organizational (i–o) psychologists and data scientists are well positioned to offer evidence-based insights regarding this common practice. despite being the most widely used professional social networking site, validity evidence of the relationship between linkedin profile elements and organizationally relevant criteria remains equivocal, and researchers have specifically called for more work on linkedin as the basis for social media assessments. using a field sample of financial services professionals, the present study seeks to examine the criterion-related validity of linkedin incumbents' professional profiles (n = 486) using objective sales performance metrics. in addition to potential privacy and ethical concerns, and with few exceptions, the results largely suggest that linkedin profile characteristics are not strongly correlated with organizational metrics. potential uses, recommendations, and limitations based on the criterion-related evidence are discussed herein.despite decades of research on job candidate ingratiation tactics, few studies have examined if hiring manager personality traits might influence the effectiveness of candidate tactics. undergraduates (n = 254) played the role of a hiring manager in a low-fidelity simulation and completed a measure of non-clinical narcissism. candidate flattery and qualifications were experimentally manipulated. contrary to predictions, results showed that candidate flattery demonstrated strong negative effects on perceptions of candidate fit and the likelihood of being invited for an interview during preliminary recruitment stages. although hiring manager narcissism was found to attenuate the negative effects of candidate flattery, these findings broadly suggest that jobseekers have more to lose than gain by flattering hiring managers.perceived gender differences remain salient in occupational settings and biases that arise maintain inequalities. we examined rater behavior of male military cadets to test how hostile sexism impacted occupationally-relevant attributions, namely, perception of peers' physical fitness, social skill, and military demeanor, items from a larger rating system and previously linked to gender bias. linear mixed models determined how ratings were influenced by raters' own beliefs or performance, ratee performance, and whether these relationships differed by ratee gender (n = 2520 raters and 4154 ratees). men with sexist beliefs rated women lower on military demeanor and physical fitness. sexism was further associated with rating women's physical fitness, more so than other men's, according to push-up scores, suggesting sexist men “keep track” of women's upper body capabilities. physical fitness scores were positively related to military demeanor rating for women but unrelated to men's score, regardless of rater's sexism. overall, ratings were associated with different performance characteristics for men vs. women, especially for physical abilities, suggesting a mechanism for expression of gender bias in a field setting.enterprise social media has been suggested as an effective platform to create social capital and improve organizational learning. although social media is useful in this regard, the cost of building and maintaining social capital remains high and therefore individuals should use enterprise social media selectively to maintain the social capital that fits with their learning requirements. this study proposes and tests a fit model between bonding/bridging social capital and exploitation/exploration learning requirements on employees’ usage behavior. the results partially confirm our fit model and demonstrate the importance of the social environment in determining enterprise social media usage.black/african americans, hispanic/latinxs, and native americans remain chronically underrepresented in science, technology, engineering, and math (stem). values misalignment, implicit/explicit bias, and hypercompetition in the funding climate disproportionately affect underrepresented minority (urm) postdoctoral fellows transitioning into faculty positions. urm scientists must increase and be given opportunities to establish independent research programs.unconscious biases in recruitment and hiring can limit the potential for building a diverse academic and private radiology practice. in the private practice environment of radiology, especially in smaller firms, in which a dysfunctional team can lead to a dysfunctional practice overall, it is especially essential to find the best candidates for the team. many strategies for mitigating these biases can be employed strategically at multiple levels of the hiring process.theory and research suggest that vocational interests should predict individual behavior at work, in school, and during leisure time. however, more research is needed to understand the underlying mechanisms for these relationships. in the present study, we suggest that satisfaction and motivation are direct outcomes of vocational interest fit and mediate the relationship between interest fit and behavior. we test this mediation model in a seven-week longitudinal study examining the prediction of academic performance in a sample of 372 college students. results indicated that vocational interest fit had direct effects on performance, citizenship behavior, counterproductive behavior, and intent to leave even after controlling for cognitive ability and conscientiousness. both motivation and satisfaction also mediated the relationships with several of these outcomes. finally, results also showed that an objective measure of interest fit was a better predictor of performance while a perceived fit measure was a stronger predictor of satisfaction. these results suggest that vocational interest fit may be useful for identifying individuals who are likely to be successful in school and help to clarify several of the underlying mechanisms for this relationship.there are extensive controversies about: (1) whether any gender differences in math exist, (2) what factors might contribute to any gender differences, and (3) whether gender differences in abilities and attitudes are likely to impact the substantially smaller number of women in math intensive science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (stem) fields. we provide a review of gender differences in math, describing the inconsistencies and disagreements in the literature, which we propose can often be tied to the population being studied or to features relating to the math measures being used. then we address two potential areas of gender differences (spatial skills and math attitudes), which may be critical in influencing gender differences in math within certain populations and types of math skills. next, this article compares key gender-math theories, analyzing them from a bio-psycho-social framework. these findings are discussed within the context of our bio-psycho-social theory of gender differences in both math skills and stem fields. in an overview of our bio-psycho-social theory, we propose that it is relative tilt in patterns of brain organization relating to spatial versus verbal abilities (rather than math versus verbal abilities tilt) that leads to gender differences in math behaviors and attitudes. this relative spatial-verbal tilt is likely a key player in influencing math skills/careers. at the end of the article, the educational implications are addressed including implications for interventions.teacher quality is a pressing concern, yet little is known about the hiring process. this paper reports the results of an experiment in which public, private, and charter schools throughout the united states were sent resumes with randomly-selected characteristics from fictitious applicants for teaching positions. the pattern of callbacks suggests that an applicant’s academic background has little impact on the likelihood of success at private and charter schools, although public schools respond more favorably to candidates from more selective colleges. private schools demonstrate a slight preference for female candidates. all three sectors demonstrate a preference for in-state candidates.this article examines whether and to what extent employers’ hiring preferences regarding male and female applicants’ cognitive and noncognitive skills signals vary with the regional and occupational recruitment context. according to the job-competition model, supply and demand might increase or decrease young people’s opportunities over and above the effect of inequalities linked to individuals’ ascribed characteristics and education. few studies have considered the interrelatedness of regional and occupation-specific supply and demand and how this affects employers’ hiring preferences in youth labor markets. i analyze a factorial survey experiment conducted on the german apprenticeship market, which was integrated into a larger representative employer survey. employers evaluated a randomly assigned set of résumés and indicated how likely it was that each applicant would be invited to a job interview or employment test. statistics on regional and occupational supply and demand and the occupational gender composition were matched to the employers. the results indicated that employers favored applicants with better skills signals and preferred male applicants in male-dominated occupations. further, employers who encountered or anticipated recruitment difficulties in their region and occupation rated applicants with the same skills signals more positively than employers in contexts with applicant oversupply. however, female applicants did not receive significantly higher ratings in male-dominated occupations in contexts with excess employer demand, nor did the gender gap in ratings decrease considerably.there has been ample debate about heterogeneous returns to a college degree, and so far, findings have been mixed on the question of whether individuals who attend college are also those who benefit most from it (positive selection), whether returns would be larger for those who never went (negative selection), or whether there is heterogeneity in returns at all. we argue that these diverging findings have two sources: first, they may arise from different conceptualizations of selection into college. we argue that different selection mechanisms have to be distinguished. we separate the college selection process into two meaningful dimensions, one capturing school-irrelevant factors related to social origin and the other capturing school-relevant factors related to individual capabilities. we, then, study heterogeneous returns to a college degree for the two dimensions separately. second, the structure of the educational system and the labor market might contribute to different patterns of returns to college. we study heterogeneous returns to a college degree in the united states and the netherlands, two countries with strong differences in how education and labor market are structured. overall, we find returns to college to be rather homogeneous instead of heterogeneous. for the school-relevant dimension of selection, we do see a tendency towards positive selection for us-men and a tendency towards negative selection for us-women. for the netherlands, we find that returns are truly homogeneous.one consequence of an epidemic is the attachment of a spoiled identity to travelers from pandemic areas (hereafter referred to as “travelers”), resulting in severe damage to their psychological health. guided by the stigmatization process model, this study examines the impact of tourism practitioners' perceptions of illness labeling toward travelers, social identification with travelers, and effects of spatial stigma. the moderating effects of empathy and social distance on this relationship are also analyzed. the results of a questionnaire survey of 754 tourism practitioners showed that illness labeling toward travelers negatively influences social identity with travelers and this leads to spatial stigma. tourism practitioners’ empathy and the social distance between them and travelers are found to moderate the relationship between illness labeling toward travelers and spatial stigma. finally, this study further finds that the two moderators are found to be more effective in alleviating social stigma than moral stigma.although human thinking is often biased by erroneous intuitions, recent de-bias studies suggest that people's performance can be boosted by short training interventions, where the correct answers to reasoning problems are explained. however, the nature of this training effect remains unclear. does training help participants correct erroneous intuitions through deliberation? or does it help them develop correct intuitions? we addressed this issue in three studies, by focusing on the well-known bat-and-ball problem. we used a two-response paradigm in which participants first gave an initial intuitive response, under time pressure and cognitive load, and then gave a final response after deliberation. studies 1 and 2 showed that not only did training boost performance, it did so as early as the intuitive stage. after training, most participants solved the problems correctly from the outset and no longer needed to correct an initial incorrect answer through deliberation. study 3 indicated that this sound intuiting sustained over at least two months. the findings confirm that a short training can boost sound reasoning at an intuitive stage. we discuss key theoretical and applied implications.voice shopping is becoming increasingly popular among consumers due to the ubiquitous presence of artificial intelligence (ai)-based voice assistants in our daily lives. this study explores how personality, trust, privacy concerns, and prior experiences affect customer experience performance perceptions and the combinations of these factors that lead to high customer experience performance. goldberg’s big five factors of personality, a contextualized theory of reasoned action (tra-privacy), and recent literature on customer experience are used to develop and propose a conceptual research model. the model was tested using survey data from 224 us-based voice shoppers. the data were analyzed using partial least squares structural equation modeling (pls-sem) and fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsqca). pls-sem revealed that trust and privacy concerns mediate the relationship between personality (agreeableness, emotional instability, and conscientiousness) and voice shoppers’ perceptions of customer experience performance. fsqca reveals the combinations of these factors that lead to high perceptions of customer experience performance. this study contributes to voice shopping literature, which is a relatively understudied area of e-commerce research yet an increasingly popular shopping method.artificial intelligence (ai) refers to a type of algorithms or computerized systems that resemble human mental processes of decision making. drawing upon multidisciplinary literature that intersects ai, decision making, educational leadership, and policymaking, this position paper aims to examine promising applications and potential perils of ai in educational leaders’ data-informed decision making (didm). endowed with ever-growing computational power and real-time data, highly scalable ai can increase efficiency and accuracy in leaders’ didm. however, misusing ai can have perilous effects on education stakeholders. many lurking biases in current ai could be amplified. of more concern, the moral values (e.g., fairness, equity, honesty, and doing no harm) we uphold might clash with using ai to make data-informed decisions. further, missteps on the issues about data security and privacy could have a life-long impact on stakeholders. the article concludes with recommendations for educational leaders to leverage ai potential and minimize its negative consequences.existing models of facial first impressions indicate between two and four factors that underpin all social trait judgements. here, we submitted several large databases of these first impression ratings to unsupervised learning algorithms with the aim of clustering together faces, rather than traits, to examine the ways in which impressions may be grouped together. experiment 1 revealed two clusters of faces that exist in both a full-dimensional, and two- or three-factor representations, of social impressions, while experiment 2 indicated that these clusters also emerged in additional datasets. in experiment 3, using bayesian modelling approaches, we extracted the impression profile of each cluster and also derived a vector that maximally separated the clusters. the resulting vector related strongly to the valence and approachability components in existing models. in a further test of our model, we showed in experiment 4 that mere facial appearance, rather than perceptions, is sufficient to separate these clusters, demonstrating probabilistically that facial cues like smiling may drive the perceptual profile that gives rise to the perceptual clusters. finally, experiment 5 showed that observer responses to faces in these two clusters mapped closely on to approach-avoidance behaviour, with observers responding rapidly and without instruction to approach faces from one cluster over the other. taken together, our findings provide compelling evidence, drawing upon both computational and behavioural approaches, that existing models of social impressions are realised practically in terms of basic approach-avoidance mechanisms.the increasing consideration of gender balance in conservation science and practice has been reflected in the setting of global commitments. yet, women remain under-represented in science and conservation decision-making. we compiled and analyzed data on the representation of women in hiring, publishing, funding, and leadership positions in european union marine sciences and conservation. to explore scientists' perceptions of gender imbalance in marine sciences and conservation more broadly, we conducted a global survey and analyzed 764 questionnaires from 42 countries. participants were also asked to identify measures that promote gender equity. we found a consistent pattern of women being under-representated across institutions and nations characterized by a relatively balanced representation of men and women in early career stages and a growing gap in later stages, with women occupying only 13% to 24% of senior positions. the same pattern was found in publishing, funding, and leadership of research institutes. survey results demonstrate that most marine scientists are aware of the general and persistent gender bias, and perceive that it may compromise our ability to effectively solve conservation problems. measures that increase fairness in evaluations (e.g. for hiring) and that support work-life balance ranked high, whereas gender-oriented measures, such as gender-specific scholarships, received less support. our findings suggest that mechanisms promoting a fairer share of family responsibilities and transparent processes in hiring and evaluation are the most promising path to a more balanced participation of women in scientific leadership and conservation decision-making. such measures may benefit not only women but diversity more generally.we study the impact of cfos with foreign experience on analysts' forecast accuracy in emerging markets. using a unique data set from china, we find that analysts' forecast accuracy increases when firms hire cfos with foreign experience, confirming the brain gain effect of cfos. our results are robust after addressing potential endogeneity by introducing the propensity score matched (psm) procedure and heckman two-stage method. channel analyses show that cfos with foreign experience are related to decreased earnings management and a greater probability of hiring high-quality auditors, indicating that the improvement in financial reporting quality and information environment brought by returnee cfos mainly drive our results. further cross-section tests reveal that compared to firms with more external pressure, the positive effect of returnee cfos on analysts' forecast accuracy is more pronounced among firms with fewer analyst coverage and belonging to less competitive industries. returnee cfos with foreign work experience exert a more significant impact on analysts' forecast accuracy than those with foreign study experience. overall, we provide the first evidence on the brain gain of cfos in terms of analyst forecasts.online and social media platforms employ automated recognition methods to presume user preferences, sensitive attributes such as race, gender, sexual orientation, and opinions. these opaque methods can predict behaviors for marketing purposes and influence behavior for profit, serving attention economics but also reinforcing existing biases such as gender stereotyping. although two international human rights treaties include explicit obligations relating to harmful and wrongful stereotyping, these stereotypes persist online and offline. by identifying how inferential analytics may reinforce gender stereotyping and affect marginalized communities, opportunities for addressing these concerns and thereby increasing privacy, diversity, and inclusion online can be explored. this is important because misgendering reinforces gender stereotypes, accentuates gender binarism, undermines privacy and autonomy, and may cause feelings of rejection, impacting people's self-esteem, confidence, and authenticity. in turn, this may increase social stigmatization. this study brings into view concerns of discrimination and exacerbation of existing biases that online platforms continue to replicate and that literature starts to highlight. the implications of misgendering on twitter are investigated to illustrate the impact of algorithmic bias on inadvertent privacy violations and reinforcement of social prejudices of gender through a multidisciplinary perspective, including legal, computer science, and critical feminist media-studies viewpoints. an online pilot survey was conducted to better understand how accurate twitter's gender inferences of its users’ gender identities are. this served as a basis for exploring the implications of this social media practice.white americans' manner of expressing egalitarianism may inadvertently communicate racial prejudices to ingroup members. despite most hypothesizing the contrary (preliminary study), white american perceivers were able to infer ingroup targets' underlying racial attitudes using only targets' written claims of being egalitarian (experiment 1; n = 256) and regardless of whether targets had the goal to be honest or as unprejudiced as possible (experiment 2; n = 456). a brunswikian lens analysis identified several linguistic cues associated with perceiver accuracy. language humanizing black americans was especially strongly associated with both targets' underlying attitudes and perceivers' inferences of targets' underlying attitudes. experiment 3 (n = 811) revealed that white americans' egalitarian statements communicate racial attitudes in an epidemiological sense: perceivers reported higher racial prejudice after being exposed to egalitarian statements from targets higher, versus lower, in underlying prejudice, regardless of whether perceiver and target had congruent or incongruent political identifications. therefore, egalitarian declarations may ironically perpetuate inegalitarian attitudes.although previous studies have shown the positive effect of research and development (r&d) intensity on new product performance (npp), our understanding about the mechanisms through which r&d intensity influence npp is less understood. in this paper, we focus on the mediating role of international r&d teams in explaining the effect of r&d intensity on npp. since r&d teams are dispersed across the globe, thus examining the role of international r&d teams will provide a more nuanced understanding of the mechanisms through which r&d intensity contributes to npp. using survey data from 201 ghanaian firms engaged in internationalization activities, the results suggest that the use of international r&d teams mediates the relationship between r&d intensity and npp. moreover, the findings indicate that the use of international r&d teams improves npp and that this linkage is amplified when the knowledge creation process inside the firm is stronger. we discuss the implications of these findings for theory and practice.we consider a hiring procedure in which candidates are evaluated in sequence by two agents of the firm. we illustrate how one agent’s interest in enhancing diversity can indirectly influence the other agent’s hiring decisions. where there is an unequal interest in diversity across the two decision makers, this can be sufficiently offsetting that even highly productive candidates who also enhance diversity are less likely to be hired. in an experimental setting, we first establish that incentivizing subjects to choose females (males) induces them into choosing females (males). importantly, then, we establish that when subjects who screen candidates in an earlier stage know about this pending incentive they systematically avoid forwarding females (males) when they jeopardize the candidacy of higher-ranking male (female) candidates.gender diversity in the c-suite and the boardroom have taken on greater importance in recent years. we establish a gender-based behavioral dimension to corporate debt maturity choice. female executives choose a significantly shorter debt maturity structure compared to their male counterparts. however, their influence on debt maturity is inversely related to the proportion of their incentive compensation. additionally, we find a substitution effect that moderates the relationship between executive gender and debt maturity structure as board gender diversity increases. further, we find that firms led by females benefit from higher corporate credit ratings thus showing that the greater ethical sensitivities of female top executives compensate for the refinancing risk commonly associated with shorter-term debt. transitions from male-to-female executive(s) result in shortening of debt maturity over the post-transition period. our results survive a battery of robustness tests, including endogeneity, and contribute at the confluence of gender-based governance and corporate financial decision-making literatures.building upon the premise that, under certain conditions, the ability of the chief executive officer (ceo) to pressure the chief financial officer (cfo) is limited, we develop a measure of cfo resistance that captures the ability of the cfo to resist undue pressure from the ceo to manage earnings. in doing so, we consider various sources of power for both the ceo and cfo, and a market setting where cfo resistance is perceived to be high. we find that firms with resistant cfos are less likely to engage in earnings management than firms with non-resistant cfos, ceteris paribus. additionally, while confirming prior evidence that ceos with strong incentives are more likely to manage earnings, we show that this effect is significantly less pronounced in the presence of resistant cfos. overall, our findings suggest that firms can improve the quality of financial reporting by creating conditions that enable cfo resistance.today's increased availability of large amounts of human behavioral data and advances in artificial intelligence (ai) are contributing to a growing reliance on algorithms to make consequential decisions for humans, including those related to access to credit or medical treatments, hiring, etc. algorithmic decision-making processes might lead to more objective decisions than those made by humans who may be influenced by prejudice, conflicts of interest, or fatigue. however, algorithmic decision-making has been criticized for its potential to lead to privacy invasion, information asymmetry, opacity, and discrimination. in this paper, we describe available technical solutions in three large areas that we consider to be of critical importance to achieve a human-centric ai: (1) privacy and data ownership; (2) accountability and transparency; and (3) fairness. we also highlight the criticality and urgency to engage multi-disciplinary teams of researchers, practitioners, policy makers, and citizens to co-develop and evaluate in the real-world algorithmic decision-making processes designed to maximize fairness, accountability, and transparency while respecting privacy.both men and women pursue careers in accounting equally, but the percentage of women that remain in the public accounting profession dwindles among the higher-tier and lead positions of larger firms (association of international certified public accountants (aicpa) 2019). while there are many variables that could affect this trend, one factor might be fewer advancement opportunities for women due to implicit bias within the profession. since decisions about what positions to pursue, who to hire, and who to promote will be important choices in a student’s future accounting career, we thought it would be essential to teach awareness of gender bias in the profession and to prepare students with techniques to recognize and decode implicit gender biases. for this instructional exercise, our students participated in a simple experiment, attended a lecture with discussion on gender bias and occupational stereotypes, and reviewed and discussed the compiled data from their responses.we found that sharing the data comparisons by gender helped to spark lively discussions and create memorable learning experiences.we explore the topics of gender bias and gender coded words in an activity that was developed to test for bias and to be used to build awareness of potential gender bias in hiring or promotion activities. as the profession seeks to understand more about creating an inclusive environment to retain employees, this timely experiment to explore how implicit bias could occur in hiring and promotion is an intervention itself.this paper argues that choice modelling is a useful approach for all social sciences, while at the same time disciplines such as sociology and political science can contribute significantly to the future development of choice modelling. so far choice modelling has mainly been applied in disciplines that investigate types of consumption choices, be it marketing to investigate preferences for new products, transportation to analyse mode choices, or environmental economics to elicit preferences for public goods. however, using the information that can be gained from individual choices among mutually exclusive alternatives has gained increasing popularity in other disciplines as a powerful tool to test theoretical hypotheses and generate insights into individual behaviour. examples are the acceptance of refugee shelters in peoples’ neighbourhood, the choice of where to commit a crime or the evolution of social networks. a good point of departure for an expansion of choice modelling within the social sciences is the common foundation that many disciplines share that are gathered under the umbrella of social sciences. research traditions and theoretical models include rational choice concepts, and choice modelling can be linked to cross-cutting methods, including agent-based models, network analysis, and machine learning. at the same time, disciplines can complement each other in studying choice behaviour, as they can contribute concepts and tools less familiar to the other disciplines. finally, all social science disciplines face challenges when it comes to issues such as causal analysis, heterogeneity in decision rules, joint decision making, or big data. choice modelling and a cross-disciplinary dialogue can contribute to meeting these challenges.this research aims to investigate the effect of workplace ostracism on counterproductive work behavior (cwb) and the moderating role of acculturation in this respect. the relationships between variables are analyzed through structural equation modeling. the data are collected from syrian migrant workers in the restaurant industry in istanbul, turkey (n = 392), and the results indicate that workplace ostracism has a positive effect on cwb. besides, acculturation plays a moderator role in the effect of workplace ostracism on cwb. in this regard, acculturation differentiates the relationship between the two variables. the present study contributes to the related theory by revealing that workplace ostracism drives less cwb among syrians adopting the host culture and more of it among those maintaining the origin culture.phd students are allocated to supervisors in several ways. in business schools, the most dominant allocation method is student-led selection. in many cases, this requires students to approach and petition potential supervisors before having had any previous communications with them. though, given that supervisors possess similar credentials, what evaluation process do students undertake when considering them? to date, research to understand this process is absent. through the theoretical frame of impression management and the use of in-depth interviews (n = 19), we address this gap. specifically, we examine how warmth and competence perceptions (i.e. the big two impressions) shape supervisor selection. further, we provide understanding of the role academic staff profiles play in this process. we contribute first, a hierarchy of determinants for supervisor choice in ascending order of importance; gatekeeping attributes, competence, and warmth. second, we provide a typology of stereotypical supervisors (the guru, the friend, the machine, the dud) based on informational cues from their profiles (i.e. high competence supervisors as colder, and high warmth staff as less competent). third, we present a critical understanding of the opportunities and challenges of self-presentation through staff profiles. finally, we offer specific advice for mobilising impression management tactics in these profiles to best appeal to phd applicants.drawing on 36 semi-structured in-depth interviews with individuals with a variety of disabilities who are active in the labor force, we examine how such individuals construct positive work-related identities at work. the findings show how disabled workers use downward social comparison as a stigma identity management strategy, to compare themselves with individuals with disabilities that they perceive to be more stigmatizing, and how this affects their ability to construct a positive work-related identity. this perception of stigma is influenced by four disability characteristics: its visibility, severity, controllability and whether the disability needs workplace adaptations. moreover, a range of contextual factors were identified to impact their capacity to construct a positive work-related identity. the disabled workers in this study tend to compare themselves with other disabled workers with disabilities that are more severe, more visible, less controllable and present more constraints for employers. interestingly, they use the characteristics of one's disability as resources to construct a positive work-related identity, while those characteristics simultaneously stigmatize them as a social group. however, disabled individuals who cannot engage in downward social comparison are put in a marginalized position and struggle to construct positive social identities.scholars have long debated the merits of hiring contender and outsider ceos for achieving strategic change. to further the debate, we propose that whether a contender or outsider ceo generates a greater degree of post-succession strategic change likely depends on his/her fit with the existing members of the top management team (tmt). drawing on the person–group fit literature and the faultline-based approach, we introduce the concept of the ceo–tmt faultline to assess the ceo’s fit with the tmt. we test our research model using a sample of chinese firms that experienced ceo succession events between 2006 and 2016. we find that the identity-based ceo–tmt faultline impedes contender and outsider successors’ generation of strategic change. additionally, the knowledge-based ceo–tmt faultline helps contenders generate strategic change, while it hinders outsiders from doing so. finally, the resource-based ceo–tmt faultline is beneficial for outsider successors to make strategic change.this article examines a new dimension of similarity, namely education and workplace similarity between lawyers and judges, and its impact on judicial outcomes. it builds on the similarity literature in law and economics, and uses the case study of the hong kong court of final appeal to explore whether judges tend to decide in favor of parties represented by lawyers who are “similar” to them in terms of shared educational backgrounds or workplaces. our findings show that lawyers who are more similar to judges perform significantly better in terms of winning cases. this association remains when controlling for lawyer, judge, and panel effects. the results point to the importance of social interactions inside and outside the courtroom on judicial decision-making, and prompt reflection regarding court design.innovation research has not presented an integrated model of how knowledge sources emerging from managers' interpersonal relationships facilitate innovation within new ventures. further, it remains unclear how such knowledge transfer may be shaped by the advance of digital technologies. this study examines how these knowledge sources and the context of the digital technologies in which they are produced influence the quality of knowledge developed by entrepreneurial ventures. our results show that parent firm and co-inventor innovativeness significantly impact venture knowledge quality, with this benefit significantly enhanced when parents possess superior information technology systems. we also find that geographically proximate innovations provide similar benefits, though they are mitigated in regions with greater adoption of computer technologies. we test our predictions on a sample of 632 biotechnology ventures founded over a ten-year period, tracking their innovations over a subsequent ten-year period. we contribute to research on entrepreneurship, geographic location, and knowledge creation.although international migrant employees have been recognized as an integral part of the global workforce contributing to the competitive advantages of the host countries and organizations, research has demonstrated that they face unequal treatment and remain a vulnerable group in the workplace due to their foreign national origin. in this paper, we focus on an understudied ascribed characteristic—foreign national origin and inequality associated with this characteristic toward international migrant employees. drawing on theories of ascriptive inequality and the institutional logics perspective, we propose a multi-level theoretical model that illustrates how institutional logics at the macro-, meso-, and micro-level, allow inequality due to foreign national origin to be produced, increased, or mitigated. our theoretical model also explicates the cross-level effects of institutional logics on inequality toward international migrant employees. lastly, our theorization explores how inequality due to foreign national origin can be questioned and tackled. implications for theory, practice, and policy are discussed.the recent surge of interest concerning data analytics in both business and academia has been accompanied by significant advances in the commercialization of hrm (human resource management)-related algorithmic applications. our review of the literature uncovered 22 high quality academic papers and 122 practitioner-oriented items (e.g., popular press and trade journals). as part of our review, we draw several distinctions between the typical use of hrm algorithms and more traditional statistical applications. we find that while hrm algorithmic applications tend not to be especially theory-driven, the “black box” label often invoked by critics of these efforts is not entirely appropriate. instead, hrm-related algorithms are best characterized as heuristics. in considering the implications of our findings, we note that there is already evidence of a research-practitioner divide; relative to scholarly efforts, practitioner interest in hrm algorithms has grown exponentially in recent years.it has become trivial to point out that algorithmic systems increasingly pervade the social sphere. improved efficiency—the hallmark of these systems—drives their mass integration into day-to-day life. however, as a robust body of research in the area of algorithmic injustice shows, algorithmic systems, especially when used to sort and predict social outcomes, are not only inadequate but also perpetuate harm. in particular, a persistent and recurrent trend within the literature indicates that society's most vulnerable are disproportionally impacted. when algorithmic injustice and harm are brought to the fore, most of the solutions on offer (1) revolve around technical solutions and (2) do not center disproportionally impacted communities. this paper proposes a fundamental shift—from rational to relational—in thinking about personhood, data, justice, and everything in between, and places ethics as something that goes above and beyond technical solutions. outlining the idea of ethics built on the foundations of relationality, this paper calls for a rethinking of justice and ethics as a set of broad, contingent, and fluid concepts and down-to-earth practices that are best viewed as a habit and not a mere methodology for data science. as such, this paper mainly offers critical examinations and reflection and not “solutions.”for many job seekers, organizational affiliation can act as a signal of their values and goals. according to theory of symbolic attraction (tsa), job seekers are attracted to organizations with symbolic images (i.e., organizational personality) that help them portray a certain type of social identity. however, studies have found mixed support for tsa and this may be attributed to a lack of a broad and theoretically-based taxonomy of organizational personality. as such, we drew on multiple theoretical perspectives from the social judgment literature to develop an alternative two-factor organizational personality taxonomy. across three studies, we first created and validated a scale to reliably and validly measure organizational personality. then, we showed that active job seekers with different social identity needs are indeed attracted to companies that differ along the two dimensions of the new taxonomy (i.e., warmth and competence) using linkedin job advertisements. finally, we used computer-aided text analysis (cata) to index organizational personality from company mission statements but found only partial support for tsa in a sample of engineering job seekers. we contribute to the recruitment literature by exploring why certain job seekers are initially attracted to different types of organizations and discuss how tsa can be further developed and refined. practically, our results highlight the potential utility of organizations signaling images that resonate with job seekers' social identity concerns early on in the recruitment process.several studies have examined biases towards gender and ethnic minorities in professional settings, such as medical practices, academia, and aviation. our research aims to understand consumers' attitudes towards ethnic minorities and female pilots. a better understanding of the impact of customers' perceptions on these minority groups could improve commercial flight operations and support increasing air travel demands. specifically, this study investigated consumer perceptions of gender and ethnic bias towards commercial airline pilots and flight students in the united states. in a two-experiment design, participants in study 1 viewed pictures of current female and male commercial pilots of various races. participants then rated their opinions on the quality of the pilot (e.g. professionalism, flight safety, smoothness of flight, and their confidence in the pilot). in study 2, participants viewed pictures of student pilots and rated the individual's likeliness to succeed in flight training. the results indicated that participants favored white male pilots in all conditions and that female and ethnic pilots were generally viewed as less favorable. these findings suggest that overt biases are present towards pilots with implications demonstrating that biases influence the hiring processes for female and minority pilots.the purpose of this paper is to provide a decision support system for managers to predict an organization's probability of successful blockchain adoption using a machine learning technique. the study conceptualizes blockchain technology as a dynamic capability that should be possessed by the organization to remain competitive. the factors influencing the blockchain adoption behavior were modeled using the theoretical lens of the technology acceptance model and technology-organisation-environment framework. the findings identify competitor pressure, partner readiness, perceived usefulness, and perceived ease of use as the most influencing factors for blockchain adoption. a predictive decision support system was developed using a bayesian network analysis featuring the significant factors that can be used by the decision-makers for predicting the probability of blockchain adoption in their organization. the prior probability values reported in the study may be used as indicators by the practitioners to predict their blockchain adoption probability. the practitioner will be required to substitute these probability values (high or low), as applicable to their organization to estimate the adoption probability. the use of the decision support system is likely to help the decision-makers to assess their adoption probability and develop future adoption strategies.how do top executives’ aesthetic attributes, such as their physical (e.g., attractiveness) and vocal (e.g., voice pitch) features, shape their firms and their own careers? whereas strategic leadership scholars mostly have focused on top executives’ cognitive, psychological, and affective attributes, researchers increasingly have focused on this research question as well. as a result, a substantial body of research has emerged, as evidenced by the sixty-five empirical studies we located. our review of the literature indicates that aesthetic attributes are related to executives’ careers and organizational outcomes in important ways, including executive selection and firm strategy. there also appear to be important contingencies, such as other individual differences and cultural factors, that shape these relationships. however, we conclude that there are important theoretical and methodological shortcomings in this literature and that addressing these issues is critical to validating extant findings, establishing more legitimacy, and moving this literature forward.we experimentally investigate how increases in legally required minimum wages affect wage offers, wage premiums (i.e., the excess of wages over the minimum wage), and employee effort. prior research has documented a gift-exchange relationship between firms and employees, whereby higher wage offers lead to higher effort. however, when the minimum wage increases, expectations regarding gift wages may also change. we predict that, following such a change, firms and employees will self-servingly determine their reference point for gift wages. as a result, while firms will increase wage offers, wage premiums will decline, and thus employees will not increase their effort. the results of (1) a laboratory experiment and (2) two online experiments are consistent with our predictions, suggesting that minimum-wage increases can have a negative effect on employee effort. ultimately, employees respond to equivalent wages differently depending on the context surrounding the wage level. implications for theory and practice are discussed.in many countries, international migrants show a high tendency to become entrepreneurs. in the literature this has often been attributed to discrimination, ethnic networks, and sociodemographic differences. this paper examines a new explanation and argues that voluntary international migrants have a more entrepreneurial personality as a result of self-selection. an analysis of intentions, preparatory actions (n = 1,385) and long-term actions (n = 360) of skilled migrants and non-migrants confirms this hypothesis. it suggests that the relationship between voluntary international migration and entrepreneurship is mediated by a greater willingness to take risks and, to some extent, by a greater need for achievement.social network platforms are rather popular nowadays. since everyone can express their opinions on social platforms without a gatekeeper, opinion bias, polarization, and distortion have been increasingly commonplace. in this paper, we focus on the opinion distortion triggered by the super-influencer who is more powerful and influential than general opinion leaders. considering three features of the super-influencer, and the controversial information posted by the super-influencer that will cause an intense discussion on social platforms, we constructed an extended model for simulation of the opinion evolution on social platforms. then, we performed several experiments using matlab, considering the influence of three factors including authority, evolutionary time, and arguable information by adjusting the parameter values. results showed that, compared with the situation without a super-influencer, public opinion could be significantly distorted when there existing a super-influencer, as long as the evolutionary time is sufficient, and the overall network opinion would be inclined to the super-influencer. although arguable information can disturb the convergence process of opinions, the average opinion value still polymerizes to a favored opinion interval.many social media users have lost some agency over the use of these sites. restoring this sense of agency is important as it can help users live responsibly with the technology, and can serve as a target for therapists treating people with difficulty to control their social media use. nevertheless, knowledge about ways to increase people's sense of agency has been limited. in this study i propose that invoking reflections about agency but allowing normal use will likely produce realization about loss of agency, and result in undesirable reduced sense of agency. in contrast, i suggest that if invoking reflections on agency is followed by a brief abstinence attempt, people will process insights on their actual ability to exert control over social media use, which will result in an increase in perceived agency. i further argue that this information processing will only accrue in people high in cognitive reflection tendencies. a 2 (time: pre vs. post) by 2 (condition: abstinence vs. control) by 2 (cognitive reflection group: low vs. high) experiment with 610 facebook users showed an increase in agency only among high cognitive reflection participants who experienced abstinence; all other groups showed decline in perceived agency. implications are discussed.although the measurement of intelligence is important, researchers sometimes avoid using them in their studies due to their history, cost, or burden on the researcher. to encourage the use of cognitive ability items in research, we discuss the development and validation of the international cognitive ability resource (icar), a growing set of items from 19 different subdomains. we consider how these items might benefit open science in contrast to more established proprietary measures. a short summary of how these items have been used in outside studies is provided in addition to ways we would love to see the use of public-domain cognitive ability items grow.facing the growing costs of an aging population, authorities of industrialized nations are increasingly pushing workers to retire later in life. in practice, however, older workers face significant barriers due to their age—or rather, due to organizational members’ perception of their age. after reviewing how discrimination against older workers permeates all stages of organizational life—from recruitment to retirement—we examine the psychological mechanisms that contribute to sustain and sometimes reinforce these discriminations. we also provide a special focus on the conditions of older female workers, and conclude with practical solutions and opportunities for future research.background
                  prior studies have shown that gender can influence how learners are assessed and the feedback they receive. we investigated the quality of faculty narrative comments in general surgery trainee evaluation using trainee-assessor gender dyads.
               
                  methods
                  narrative assessments of surgical trainees at the university of british columbia were collected and rated using the mcmaster narrative comment rating scale (mncrs). variables from the mncrs were inputted into a generalized linear mixed model to explore the impact of gender dyads on the quality of narrative feedback.
               
                  results
                  2,469 assessments were collected. women assessors tended to give higher-quality comments (p's < 0.05) than men assessors. comments from men assessors to women trainees were significantly more positive than comments from men assessors to men trainees (p = 0.02). men assessors also tended to give women trainees more reinforcing than corrective comments than to men trainees (p < 0.01).
               
                  conclusions
                  there are significant differences in the quality of faculty feedback to trainees by gender dyads. a range of solutions to improve and reduce differences in feedback quality are discussed.behaviors can be characterized as “the internally coordinated responses (actions or inactions) of whole living organisms (individuals or groups) to internal and/or external stimuli.” (levitis et al., 2009). the study of behavior is a critical component of theory advancement in the area of leadership. yet, a large number of leadership studies conflate behavioral and nonbehavioral concepts. first, our manuscript offers a theoretical discussion of why the absence of research on behavior is a growing concern for the advancement of theory in leadership. evidence from a systematic review (k = 214) indicates that of 2338 variables only 3% are behavioral in nature (19% of studies include at least one behavioral measure). second, we present a framework of behavior to better distinguish leader (follower) behaviors from other concepts. finally, we provide a set of methodological recommendations to ensure alignment between theoretical conceptualizations and methodological choices.there is a set of social connections linking individuals, households, and villages which structure the flow of economic goods and information. the connections form broad networks that serve as conduits of information and goods, substituting for state institutions in agricultural economies where formal government services may be lacking or entirely absent. the close familial and social ties between individuals and households that underpin economic and social relations leads to instances where the choices made by a single person or household can spill over into the choices and outcomes of others. understanding the way in which people form social ties, and then how these networks behave on larger scales can lend insight into the determinants and outcomes of a wide range of social and economic behavior.
                  this chapter details the basis of network theory and its appropriate applications. it comprises models of network formation, directed and undirected networks, and diffusion and aggregation models. it describes the data necessary to estimate models of network formation and network statistics, data typically generated through the use of census surveys or estimates derived using aggregated relational data. prominent examples of network analysis include the study of the transmission of information within agrarian societies, the impact of microfinance institutions on network structure, risk-sharing networks, migration, and technology adoption.
                  the chapter concludes with caveats on the application of network theory, including questions as feasibility of network-based targeting, and the limited amount of data available to researchers.work-family management has become a highly salient issue for organizations as the world of work experiences ongoing changes due to globalization, technological advances, and new challenges spurred by the covid-19 pandemic. in the past decade or so, the concept of family-supportive supervisor behaviors (fssb) has been recognized by management and organizational science scholars as an important resource for alleviating negative pressures related to work-family management. however, despite evidence suggesting organizations are heavily gendered (i.e., built upon and structured according to assumptions about gender) and that fssb represent a set of gendered behaviors, the role of gender is largely missing from fssb theorization. in addition, little is known regarding the antecedents of fssb and the mechanisms responsible for the enactment or withholding of fssb by supervisors. to address these gaps, we perform an interdisciplinary theoretical integration to develop a conceptual and process model of gendered antecedents of the fssb decision-making process. we present theoretically driven propositions regarding how gender-related variables of the supervisory dyad influence both 1) if/how supervisors become aware of an fssb opportunity, and 2) supervisors' fssb decisions to enact, withhold, or neglect fssb. we conclude with practical implications and opportunities for future fssb research based on implications of our theoretical insights.artificial intelligence and algorithmic technologies support or even automate a large variety of human resource management (hrm) activities. this affects a range of stakeholders with different, partially conflicting perspectives on the opacity and transparency of algorithm-based hrm. in this paper, we explain why opacity is a key characteristic of algorithm-based hrm, describe reasons for opaque algorithm-based hrm, and highlight the implications of opacity from the perspective of the main stakeholders involved (users, affected people, deployers, developers, and regulators). we also review strategies to reduce opacity and promote transparency of algorithm-based hrm (technical solutions, education and training, regulation and guidelines), and emphasize that opacity and transparency in algorithm-based hrm can simultaneously have beneficial and detrimental consequences that warrant taking a multi-stakeholder view when considering these consequences. we conclude with a research agenda highlighting stakeholders' interests regarding opacity, strategies to reduce opacity, and consequences of opacity and transparency in algorithm-based hrm.the ability to contain adverse effects of major risks under turbulent conditions and exploit the opportunities they present are fundamental concerns in strategic management and various institutions promote enterprise risk management (erm) to deal with these challenges. yet, our knowledge about how erm affects performance and interacts with corporate strategy-making processes is limited. the erm frameworks impose first and second lines of defense practices to integrate business operations and corporate risk oversight. emergent strategies generate responsive initiatives and strategic planning coordinates updated actions. hence, this study analyzes the conjoint effects of these erm practices and strategy-making processes based on a large corporate sample and finds that erm practices depend on strategy-making to attain effective risk outcomes. the application of erm frameworks can, therefore, not be assessed in isolation, but must consider corporate strategy-making. this has implications for the way we conduct research on strategic risk management, how executives approach risk oversight and policy-makers impose formal risk governance requirements.unknownartificial intelligence (ai) can bring both opportunities and challenges to human resource management (hrm). while scholars have been examining the impact of ai on workplace outcomes more closely over the past two decades, the literature falls short in providing a holistic scholarly review of this body of research. such a review is needed in order to: (a) guide future research on the effects of ai on the workplace; and (b) help managers make proper use of ai technology to improve workplace and organizational outcomes.
                  this is the first systematic review to explore the relationship between artificial intelligence and workplace outcomes. through an exhaustive systematic review and analysis of existing literature, we ultimately examine and cross-relate 60 papers, published in 30 leading international (ajg 3 and 4) journals over a period of 25 years (1995–2020). our review researches the ai-workplace outcomes nexus by drawing on the major functions of human resource management and the process framework of ‘antecedents, phenomenon, outcomes’ at multiple levels of analysis. we review the sampled articles based on years of publication, theories, methods, and key themes across the ‘antecedents, phenomenon, outcomes’ framework. we provide useful directions for future research by embedding our discussion within hr literature, while we recommend topics drawing on alternative units of analysis and theories that draw on the individual, team, and institutional levels.attributions of affective meaning – goodness, power, and activity – are important for understanding how people interact with both human and technological agents. recent evidence indicates that labels of artificial intelligence (ai) and computer system differ in affective impressions, but it is unknown if people perceived affective differences when the ai or computer is an agent with a specific human-like role. for humans, roles (e.g., an online recruiter, a product assembling employee, a resource distributor) have stable affective meaning creating a stable social structure and predictable interaction patterns. in this paper, we examine how the 59 roles affectively differ based on whether they describe a human, a computer, or an ai identity (e.g., a product assembling employee, a product assembling computer system, a product assembling artificial intelligence). in an online study, participants (n ​= ​549) perceived both humans and computer systems as better (higher in goodness) than ais, while also perceiving humans as weaker and less active than either computer systems or ais. we also examine these role-identities in the context of team membership (e.g., a product assembling employee is part of an assembly line team), to understand whether the additional context of a team influences affective impressions. for goodness and power, nearly identical results indicate that team context makes no difference to affective perceptions; however human role-identities get a boost in activity when on teams, therefore wiping out the human-technology differences.drawing upon the literature on organizational imprinting, we examine how a firm’s history impacts its performance in subsequent periods. by considering the emerging market context of india, we present evidence that the degree of imprinting of the pre-liberalization era is negatively related to the persistence of superior performance in the post-liberalization period. furthermore, we investigate the role of imprinting attenuators and find that a firm’s listing status, international exposure, and knowledge spillovers from foreign firms weaken this baseline relationship. empirical results based on a large unbalanced panel data set of 18,201 firm-year observations of indian firms during the period 1991–2005 provide robust support for our conceptual model. complementing the growing literature on the impact of contemporaneous institutional changes on performance, this study sheds light on the important role of the institutional history of firms from emerging economies.employers are increasingly using social networking sites (sns) to support hiring decisions, and yet the knowledge of their practice patterns remains limited. this paper aims to (a) examine which and to what extent selectors analyze applicant’s profile features to support hiring decisions, and (b) explore the issues selectors perceive as being important while using sns in personnel selection. it employs a two-phase methodology: a questionnaire-based survey, and a semi-structured interview study. selectors report to examine more often job-related features, though they also admitted to analyze protected personal details and non-job related features. from the statistical analysis of the profile features being analyzed, three different patterns emerged, suggesting that selectors (a) exclude applicants during pre-selection and after a face-to-face interview, and (b) collect additional information about applicants to know them more deeply. practitioners highlighted, among others, privacy, impression management, standardization, and possible bias issues. conclusions and implications of these findings are discussed.this paper explores alternative ways of evaluating and ultimately hiring a generalist consultancy for short- and medium-term projects, and how this is shaped by the size of the clients’ company. what buying factors do managers of small and large firms have in mind when hiring consultants for their projects?
                  instead of employing surveys incorporating predefined buying factors based on what the researchers think would be important, a cognitive mapping methodology - the repertory grid technique - is applied to investigate the underlying phenomena. using the repertory grid technique to draw mental models is a novel research technique within the supply management field. recent behavioral supply chain management research found the behavior of managers to be critically influenced by mental models: the lenses through which managers perceive, simplify and interpret the world.
                  results show differences between the buying factors used in small- and large-scale companies: managers of large companies are more ‘reputation and outcome-oriented’ and managers of small businesses are more concerned with ‘how the services are rendered’. however, both constituents stressed the importance of expertise, quality and the relationship between the client and the management consultancy, although the character of such a relationship differed between small- and large-scale firms. results also point out criteria that managers of small and large companies employ to discriminate between good and poor performing consultancies and to judge service delivery. the practical implications for both companies hiring consultancies and the consultancy companies are discussed. for consultancies, our findings can help tailoring their efforts to a differing clientele when marketing and selling their services. for companies hiring consultancies, fixating too much on particular buying factors may lead to biased decisions.in online labor markets (olms), employers evaluate job applicants based on the published information in their profiles. in this study, we empirically investigate how applicants’ skill information as well as their previous experiences affect employers’ hiring decisions when considering the heterogeneity of online labor markets. we find that (1) employers prefer job applicants with more incongruent skills in low-skill industries, but not in high-skill industries; (2) job applicants’ experiences attenuate employers’ price sensitivity on making hiring decisions in both high-skill industries and low-skill industries. our findings provide a different perspective from the prior literature on olms by considering the labor market heterogeneity, i.e. high-skill industries and low-skill industries. we also provide new insights into employers’ assessment on job applicants’ skill and experience information.for people with chronic illnesses in low-and-middle-income countries, access to enabling resources that contribute to health, economic and social resilience such as continued employment, often fall outside the health sector's remit or delivery of national structural protection. in the absence of sufficient laws and policies that mitigate discrimination and enhance reasonable work modifications, private employers have a high degree of agency and discretion in how they hire, manage, or terminate employees with chronic illnesses (eci). there is a scarcity of research on how employers make decisions under these conditions. using a constructivist grounded theory approach, we interviewed and analysed data from 30 human resource (hr) professionals and decision-makers within private organisations in klang valley, malaysia (june 2015–september 2016). in this paper, we use ‘ethics of care’ as an analytic, and moral lens to present hr's decision-making rationales in caring for and managing eci. respondents described the positive influence of international practices, including through parent company policies, as a reference for best practice. while overt bias and discriminatory perceptions were predictably described, participants also discussed care as relational organisational culture, and strategy, albeit selectively. apart from illness factors such as duration and severity, descriptions of ‘selective caregiving’ included considerations of an employee's duration in organisations, the perceived value of the employee to employers, organisation size, ethos, resources and capabilities, and how organisations managed the uncertainty of illness futures as a potential risk to organisation outcomes. selective caregiving can contribute to social, economic and health inequalities in populations with chronic illness. nevertheless, global health actors can use the problems identified by participants, as entry points to engage more closely with employers and the broader private and commercial sectors in lmics, to facilitate more inclusive care, and care-based intersectoral work to address the social and economic determinants of health.algorithms are used in public management decisions, for instance, to allocate police staff to potential crime scenes. we study how the usage of algorithms for managerial decisions affects procedural justice as reported by public employees. we argue that some public management practices may be more suitable for algorithmic decision-making than others. we hypothesize that employees' perceptions differ depending on the complexity of the practice at hand. we test this through two survey experiments on 109 dutch public employees and 126 public employees from the uk. our results show that when a decision is made by an algorithm for practices that are low in complexity, procedural justice increases. our results also show that, for practices that are high in complexity, decisions involving a public manager are perceived as higher in procedural justice compared to decisions that were made automatically by computers using algorithms. nevertheless, adding an algorithm to a public manager's decision-making process can increase procedural justice for high complexity practices. we conclude that managers should explore automation opportunities for low complexity practices, but to be cautious when using algorithms to replace public managers' decisions for high complexity practices. in the latter case, transparency about algorithms and open dialogues on perceptions could be beneficial, but this should not be seen as a panacea.while statistical discrimination theory is often proposed as an important explanation for ethnic discrimination in hiring, research that empirically scrutinizes its underlying assumptions is scant. to test these assumptions, we combine data from a cross-national field experiment with secondary data indicative of the average labor productivity of ethnic communities. we find little evidence that adding diagnostic personal information reduces discrimination against ethnic minorities. furthermore, we do not find an association between language similarity or the socioeconomic resources of the ethnic community and hiring discrimination. however, our findings show that discrimination is related to the socioeconomic development of the country of ancestry. finally, the impact of these indicators of group productivity is generally not moderated by the amount of diagnostic personal information. taken together, these findings question several core assumptions of statistical discrimination theory.time limits and deadlines are pervasive in organizational settings. managers work under time limits themselves and also manage time limits for others. while the motivational effect of time limits on individual and group performance has been studied, little is known about how time limits shape people’s consequential decisions that involve reasoning about others’ behavior. we investigate the effect of time limits on managers’ choice of compensation schemes for hiring temporary workers in games with financial consequences. we find a biased preference among managers for flat fees over time-metered fees, particularly under longer time limits, resulting in lost earnings for managers. the sub-optimal choices occur because managers over-estimate task completion time, which in turn is driven by both beliefs about workers’ behavior and about the perceived scope of the task. the bias is accordingly eliminated only when both workers’ incentives are decoupled from time limits and managers are provided with information about the scope of work. the robust effect of longer time limits on preference for flat fees, even when the time limits are irrelevant and non-informative, is observed regardless of whether task quality is fixed or variable, and persists among actual managers.previous research has demonstrated the impact of political ideology on a wide variety of psychological and behavioral processes. contributing to this research, we examine the effect of organizational decision makers’ political ideology and job candidates’ gender on how the decision makers communicate information about leadership positions to the candidate. in five studies, we demonstrate that decision makers who are more conservative exhibit gender bias by providing a female (versus male) candidate with a less positive description of a leadership position, an effect driven by the decision makers’ felt anxiety. we further show that making information on women’s success in leadership positions salient diminishes the effect of political ideology insofar as both more and less conservative decision makers will exhibit similar levels of positivity when communicating with a prospective female candidate. finally, we discuss the theoretical and practical implications of our findings.this paper examines the extent to which solo self-employment serves as a vehicle for job creation. using panel data from the household, income and labour dynamics in australia (hilda) survey, a dynamic multinomial logit model of transitions between labour market states is estimated. the empirical strategy closely follows that used in a previous study employing household data from germany by lechmann and wunder (2017). estimates of true cross-state dependence between solo self-employment and employership are obtained that are relatively small. further, the results imply that the probability of a male worker being an employer just two years after transitioning out of solo self-employment is only about 4% (and among women, it is just 2%). the extent of both true cross-state dependence and true state dependence in employership is, however, much greater among individuals who have demonstrated a preference for self-employment in the past. this implies that pro-entrepreneurial policies that target more ‘entrepreneurial’ individuals will have more pronounced and long-term effects in stimulating job creation.to improve risk management processes, policymakers around the world have encouraged firms to invest in improving risk oversight and governance practices, such as adoption of a board risk committee (brc). this paper examines whether adoption of a brc improves a firm's access to capital by reducing financial constraints risk. using a sample of 28,265 observations from listed firms in the u.s. from 2005 to 2017, we find voluntary adoption of a brc significantly reduces financial constraints risk. this finding is robust to alternative proxies of financial constraints risk, accounting for sample selection bias and controlling for unobserved firm-level heterogeneity. we also find that brc characteristics including size, financial experts and female directors are negatively related to financial constraints risk. in addition, we document significant indirect effects of brcs on financial constraints risk through reducing information asymmetry and agency costs. in summary, the findings of this paper indicate that voluntary adoption of a brc is important for listed firms without an effective risk governance structure at the board level.the labor market value of former entrepreneurs remains unclear, with both theory and empirical evidence offering mixed conclusions. we suggest that the timing of entrepreneurial experience matters and helps unravel this puzzle. using danish employer-employee data on a large sample of university graduates, we show that the option value of testing an entrepreneurial opportunity and then returning to paid employment decreases over an individual's career. we follow individuals for fifteen years and compare the labor market outcomes of never, early, and late entrepreneurs based on the timing and type of entrepreneurial experience in their careers. compared to those who have never been entrepreneurs, early entrepreneurs earn higher wages, while late entrepreneurs experience a significant wage penalty in the long run. both the timing and the type of entrepreneurial experience shape individuals’ subsequent career trajectories and employers’ uncertainty about their value, which partly explain long-term wage differentials.this paper assesses the role of eco-design packaging in consumer food waste and tests the effects of consumers’ perceptions of eco-design packaging (redesigned visual and/or verbal attributes) on their intentions to avoid wasting food. the authors posit that eco-design packaging can lead to food waste reduction through its physical, social, and commercial functions. the authors carried out two 2 (visual: resealable vs. nonresealable) × 2 (verbal: sustainable cues present vs. absent) between-subject experiments of two food products. the results show that eco-design packaging can help reduce consumer food waste: (1) consumers are more sensitive to improvements related to visual rather than verbal attributes of packaging; (2) consumers’ food waste decisions seem to be more strongly affected by instrumental functions (e.g., conservation product quality and communication guidance for storage) than social (e.g., pollution related to packaging) and commercial functions (e.g., category identification); and (3) health consciousness has mediated moderating effects on these relationships. this research contributes to the literature by determining underlying mechanisms of the effects of eco-design packaging on consumer food waste. this work can be embedded into the transformative consumer research movement to maximize social awareness, use, and benefits.people with mental health problems face barriers to labour market inclusion. in this study, we investigate the extent to which employers are attentive and willing to include young people with mental health problems. the study contributes to existing knowledge by exploring contextual factors that shape employers’ hiring behaviour. the findings show that taking on a social responsibility to contribute to an inclusive working life (as indicated by having entered the norwegian inclusive working life agreement) and the degree to which recruitment practices are formalised (as indicated by labour market sector) is positively associated with enterprises’ inclusiveness towards young people with mental health problems. however, the general tendency is that few enterprises focus on including young people with mental health problems. likewise, only a few enterprises would invite a qualified applicant with such problems to a job interview. thus, our study supports research suggesting that employer reluctance towards hiring persons with mental health problems contributes to the latter's labour market disadvantages.this article has been withdrawn at the request of the publisher, as sport management review (smr) has migrated from elsevier to taylor & francis effective1st january 2021.
                  we apologize for any inconvenience this may cause. if you have any questions, please directly contact the editor-in-chief of the journal.
                  the full elsevier policy on article withdrawal can be found at https://www.elsevier.com/about/our-business/policies/article-withdrawalwe study the role social interactions at the workplace play in the decision to apply for a professional recognition program. in chile, teachers can apply to a pedagogical excellence award. successful applicants receive a wage increase and are publicly recognized. we exploit the quasi-random variation in the allocation of awards generated by a sharp assignment rule. we document that the success of an applicant increases her school colleagues’ application rate to the program by almost 75%. the impact is higher for colleagues with closer interaction with a successful applicant. we speculate on social learning as a driver of this result.what signals quality for digital startups seeking access to external finance? analyzing a unique dataset from india, we investigate the impact of traditional quality signals (e.g., the founders’ years of experience, prior industry experience); networking signals (e.g., degrees from elite educational institutes, the breadth of an entrepreneurial team); and digital signals (e.g., the social media presence of the startup on multiple social media sites) on the access to venture capital financing. we find that while networking and digital signals positively impact access to financing, traditional human capital signals do not have any significant impact on the process.we investigate the impact of employee treatment on labor investment efficiency. we provide evidence that employee-friendly treatment is significantly associated with lower deviations of labor investment from the level justified by economic fundamentals, i.e., higher labor investment efficiency. the effect of employee treatment on labor investment efficiency is stronger for firms that are human-capital-intensive, with more skilled labor and knowledge capital, and those that face higher product market competition. using the 2008–2009 financial crisis as an external shock and applying the difference-in-difference method, we also show that employee-friendly firms have higher labor investment efficiency in the post-financial crisis period, but experience more inefficient labor investments during the crisis. our results are robust to placebo tests, selection bias, propensity score matching, alternative explanations, alternative proxies for both employee treatment and labor investment efficiency as well as the adjustment for using residuals as dependent variables, additional control variables, and various approaches in addressing endogeneity issues.context: creativity is one of the essential ingredients in successful software engineering. however, majority of the work related to creativity in software engineering has focused on creativity in requirement engineering. furthermore, there are very few studies that examine programmer creativity and the impact of individual and contextual factors on it.
                  objective: the objective of the study is to analyze the impact of the big five personality traits including extraversion, agreeableness, conscientiousness, neuroticism and openness to experience, as well as knowledge collection behavior on a programmer's creativity intention.
                  method: a quantitative survey was conducted and data from 294 programmers, working in offshore software development projects, was collected. the data was later analyzed using smart-pls (3.0).
                  results and conclusions: the results indicated that openness to experience, extraversion, conscientiousness and knowledge collection behavior positively predicted a programmer's creativity intention. on the other hand, neuroticism negatively predicts creativity intention of the programmer. the study also concluded that all of the independent variables, except the agreeableness trait, significantly predict creativity intention which in turn significantly predicts creativity. as a result, our conclusions indicate that programmer's personality traits and knowledge collection behavior play a key role in shaping their intention to be creative. hence, personality traits and knowledge collection behavior should be given due attention during the hiring process of creativity-oriented software companies.leaders in the traditionally male-dominated railroad industry should understand the challenges associated specifically with more women in their workplaces and, perhaps more importantly, gain a clearer understanding of how to attract and retain more female employees. researchers surveyed employees at two of north america's largest railroads—one in the united states and another in canada—to anonymously record employees' current attitudes regarding women in traditionally male-dominated operations positions. these railroads agreed to participate in this study in order to help identify sources of potential employment recruitment pools and pinpoint gender-specific barriers in the workplace. this research included tracing historical challenges women have faced in becoming railroad operating employees. in addition to analyzing trends and challenges of employing women in male-dominated roles, this study considered how job vacancies should be marketed to gain the interest of potential female employees and examined how to implement best practices to promote and foster greater numbers of women in these operational roles.traditionally, leadership research has focused on unidirectional questions in which leader attributes are considered to determine follower outcomes. however, many phenomena between leaders (x) and followers (y) involve a simultaneous influence process in which x affects y, and y also affects x (i.e., simultaneity). unfortunately, this simultaneity bias creates endogeneity and is often not properly addressed in the extant leadership literature. in three studies, we demonstrate the challenges of simultaneity bias and present two methodological solutions that can help to correct problems of simultaneity bias. we focus on simultaneity that occurs between follower resistance and leader control. we mathematically demonstrate the simultaneity bias using a simulated dataset and show how this bias can be statistically solved using an instrumental variable estimation approach. furthermore, we present how the simultaneity bias can be resolved using an experimental design. we discuss how our approach advances theory and methods for leadership research.the economic literature on time-pressured decisions is slim and has mainly relied on laboratory collected data. within this literature, only few studies have investigated the gender differences in the effects of time constraint on decision making. the world chess federation reports the official player ratings in standard, rapid and blitz chess. standard, rapid, and blitz chess only differ from each other in the stringency of the time constraint they impose on the players. while standard chess can last several hours, rapid (blitz) chess allocates each player (30) 10 min or less for the entire game. the present paper uses 2012 to 2019 chess tournament data of the world chess federation to investigate the gender differences in the effects of time constraint on performance. these data, containing more than 1.8 million individual observations, are analyzed using several approaches to ensure the robustness of the findings. the results indicate that the rapid and blitz ratings of female chess players are below the ratings of male chess players of the same skills. while female underperformance is largely robust even at the country level, its magnitude is rather small. finally, reexamining the question by chess skill thresholds produces evidence that female underperformance is greater among the elite players. the findings are discussed in light of the past literature.we examine the impact of ceo-director ties on labor investment efficiency. using an aggregate measure of ceo-director ties we find that ceos who have strong ties with independent board members are associated with inefficient labor investment. the effect is stronger in firms that rely more on skilled labor and those that are financially constrained, and that inefficient labor investment exacerbates labor cost stickiness. our results are robust to selection bias, endogeneity concerns, and alternative explanations. overall, the results are consistent with the view that stronger ceo ties to independent board members makes monitoring ineffective, which, in turn, aggravates the inefficient labor investment problem. thus, we identify a potential channel through which ceo-director ties can be detrimental to shareholder value.we show that local politicians' probability of being employed by a municipality increases when they have a strong party connection to its mayor. using a regression discontinuity design, we compare the employment outcomes of individuals connected to the winner vis-à-vis those connected to the runner-up in close mayoral races in ecuador. among candidates to local councils who lose their bid, the probability of getting a job in the municipality increases tenfold when their own party's mayoral nominee is elected. the effect is very strong for low-ranking positions, which suggests that it is the result of political patronage. three additional results shed light on where patronage is more likely to emerge. first, the effect is stronger in poorer municipalities, where public sector jobs are more valuable. second, benefits go largely to politicians better positioned within the party structure. third, the effect is concentrated among younger mayors, who have a longer career ahead of them to capitalize clientelist arrangements.professional social media platforms (psms), including linkedin, have created better opportunities for students and employees to advance their career aspirations. though psms seem to be an effective human resource management (hrm) tool, in order to leverage psms effectively, it is strategically essential to incorporate research inputs from both the employers' and the individuals’ perspectives. realizing this, academic researchers have been interested in psms since the previous decade. however, research on psms and their effectiveness continues to be in the embryonic stage. to catalyze scholarly interest and provide a foundation for formulating sound theoretical propositions for the efficient use of psms, it is imperative to aggregate and critically evaluate prior findings and provide avenues for future research. addressing this need, the current study undertakes a systematic literature review to comprehensively understand the influence of psms on one particular aspect of hrm—namely, hiring processes. forty-five studies were selected from existing literature to examine the accumulated knowledge, assess current research boundaries, and derive ways to enrich this area of research further. the study is motivated by the fact that given the short life cycle of social media platforms and information systems, psms need to innovate and continuously offer value to their users. the study makes a concrete contribution to psm literature by generating actionable research avenues for future researchers and providing practical insights for managers and service providers.drawing on the concept of a gale of creative destruction in a capitalistic economy, we argue that initiatives to assess the robustness of findings in the organizational literature should aim to simultaneously test competing ideas operating in the same theoretical space. in other words, replication efforts should seek not just to support or question the original findings, but also to replace them with revised, stronger theories with greater explanatory power. achieving this will typically require adding new measures, conditions, and subject populations to research designs, in order to carry out conceptual tests of multiple theories in addition to directly replicating the original findings. to illustrate the value of the creative destruction approach for theory pruning in organizational scholarship, we describe recent replication initiatives re-examining culture and work morality, working parents’ reasoning about day care options, and gender discrimination in hiring decisions.
               
                  significance statement
                  it is becoming increasingly clear that many, if not most, published research findings across scientific fields are not readily replicable when the same method is repeated. although extremely valuable, failed replications risk leaving a theoretical void— reducing confidence the original theoretical prediction is true, but not replacing it with positive evidence in favor of an alternative theory. we introduce the creative destruction approach to replication, which combines theory pruning methods from the field of management with emerging best practices from the open science movement, with the aim of making replications as generative as possible. in effect, we advocate for a replication 2.0 movement in which the goal shifts from checking on the reliability of past findings to actively engaging in competitive theory testing and theory building.
               
                  scientific transparency statement
                  the materials, code, and data for this article are posted publicly on the open science framework, with links provided in the article.leadership development (ld) is a crucial success factor for startups to increase their human capital, survival rate, and overall performance. however, only a minority of young ventures actively engage in ld, and research rather focuses on large corporations and smes, which do not share the typical startup characteristics such as a rather young workforce, flat hierarchies, resource scarcity, and high time pressure. to overcome this practical and theoretical lack of knowledge, we engage in foresight and explore which leadership development techniques will be most relevant for startups within the next five to ten years. to formulate the most probable scenario, we conduct an international, two-stage delphi study with 27 projections among industry experts. according to the expert panel, the majority of startups will engage in leadership development over the next decade. most startups will aim to develop the leadership capabilities of their workforce as a whole and use external support. the most prominent prospective ld measures in startups include experiential learning methods, such as action learning, developmental job assignments, multi-rater feedback, as well as digital experiential learning programs, and developmental relationships such as coaching in digital one-to-one sessions. self-managed learning will play a more important role than formal training.women are underrepresented in professional spaces, particularly at leadership positions. in science, the participation in editorial boards of journals is evidence of a high reputation within a specialty or field. therefore, female presence in editorial boards can be used as a proxy for female presence and leadership in academic spaces. here, we assessed the gender composition in editorial boards of 31 biodiversity conservation (bc) journals included in the web of science and obtained information on current and past editorial boards of these journals. we found pervasive gender bias in the editorial boards of the main scientific bc journals. current editorial boards were composed of 1251 editors, of which only 28.7% were women. nevertheless, gender biases are becoming smaller over time. our projections indicate that bc journals may achieve gender balance in their editorial boards by the year 2038. we argue that a diverse and inclusive editorial board has greater chances to propose innovative solutions to conservation problems. thus, the academic community, editors and journals must take proactive measures to achieve gender balance. given that most editors are men, hiring women still depends on them; and these men need urgently to take their share of responsibility and be actors of change. more broadly, journals and science decision-makers must commit to their importance in the movement and start, for example, to hire and support women's work.research on identity in entrepreneurship represents a central, dynamic, and quickly growing field of research. yet, rapid growth has led to a diversity of theoretical conversations and methodological advancements that has yielded a largely disjointed body of existing work. to advance research in this area, we systematically review 180 articles on identity(ies) in entrepreneurship from the last 20 years. we conducted a bibliometric analysis using terms in the keywords, titles, and abstracts of identified articles to examine the co-occurrence of these terms. we then develop an organizing framework that reflects four unique conversations within the body of research—distinctions, variations, constructions, and intersections—and highlight the key research questions and themes studied with each conversation. we chart a path for future research that reflects the broad spectrum of views in the literature and propose new opportunities for research that takes a network-based approach, explores post-emergent venture states of identity, and moves the study of identity to the digital world of online communities.how much can negative attitudes towards women affect voting for a female candidate on a major election? we measure gender animus by calculating a proxy based on google search queries that include gender-charged language. such approach likely elicits socially sensitive attitudes by limiting the concern of social censoring, circumventing usual difficulties associated with survey-based measurements. we compare the proxy to hillary clinton’s vote share in the presidential election of 2016, controlling for the vote share of the previous democratic presidential candidate, barack obama. our results indicate that a one standard deviation increase in our proxy is associated with a 2 percentage points relative loss for hillary and suggest that online-based observable behavior can be useful for measuring different kinds of hard-to-measure social attitudes.when new ventures tap into the labor market, they must battle with more established companies to recruit top human capital. we examine how an attribute known to influence new venture funders, entrepreneurial passion, also contributes to the ability of the firm to recruit employees. through conjoint analysis of potential employee ratings of the attractiveness of working at a new venture, we demonstrate the importance of perceived passion of founders to potential employees. we show that a founder’s perceived passion for their product and for growth can enhance employer attractiveness when founders are perceived to have high human capital, but more importantly, can also compensate for founders with limited human capital. when considered together, perceived passion for product or passion for growth can compensate for low human capital of founders in attracting employees to new ventures.people rely on their lay theories, or mindsets, to make meaning of their experience in intercultural contact. given that proficiency in the local language is a crucial social marker of immigrants’ integration, we argue that language mindsets (i.e., beliefs about whether language learning ability is fixed or changeable) guide members of the receiving society to make inferences about immigrants’ language ability (e.g., “can immigrants improve their language ability?”). this social inference, in turn, predicts their willingness to interact with immigrants and support immigrants’ language education. in a correlational study (n = 231) and an experimental study (n = 106), we investigated whether and how language mindsets influence participants’ support for immigrants’ intercultural contact. we found that trait and experimentally-induced fixed (vs. growth) mindsets led to negative judgments of immigrants’ potential to develop their skills in the local language, which in turn predicted avoidance of contact with migrants and opposition to governmental funding of immigrants’ language education. the effects held even after controlling for participants’ political orientations, perceived difficulties of the english language, and judgments of target immigrants’ language fluency. these findings suggest that promoting growth mindsets about language ability can lead to more positive intercultural attitudes that impact the acceptance of migrants. we discussed the implications of language mindsets for understanding the processes of intercultural communication and forming positive intercultural relations.the effects of verbal accents on intergroup attitudes are well documented. this study aims to enrich our understanding by exploring how those effects vary according to the speaker's gender and the political context. we conducted two online survey experiments in which south korean citizens were randomly exposed to speakers exhibiting one of four accent conditions – south korean male and female accents and north korean male and female accents – a week before and two days after the 2018 singapore summit between north korea and the united states, in order to test hypotheses based on literatures from political science, social psychology and evolutionary biology. the results indicate that only exposure to a north korean male accent, not a north korean female accent, strengthened stereotypes about north koreans among south koreans prior to the summit. further, this negative effect disappeared immediately after the summit.informed by moral typecasting theory, we predicted a gender bias in harm evaluation, such that women are more easily categorized as victims and men as perpetrators. study 1 participants assumed a harmed target was female (versus male), but especially when labeled ‘victim’. study 2 participants perceived animated shapes perpetuating harm as male and victimized shapes as female. study 3 participants assumed a female employee claiming harassment was more of a victim than a male employee making identical claims. female victims were expected to experience more pain from an ambiguous joke and male perpetrators were prescribed harsher punishments (study 4). managers were perceived as less moral when firing female (versus male) employees (study 5). the possibility of gender discrimination intensified the cognitive link between women and victimhood (study 6). across six studies in four countries (n = 3,137), harm evaluations were systematically swayed by targets’ gender, suggesting a gender bias in moral typecasting.objective
                  this study aims to identify factors influencing female medical students’ decision-making about specialties, specifically surgery and interventional radiology (ir), in an effort to inform future recruitment and professional development strategies.
               
                  design
                  an electronic survey was created to assess both qualitative and quantitative data.
               
                  setting
                  the survey was sent prior to a symposium for trainees interested in pursuing ir or surgery, held at university of chicago (chicago, il) in february 2019.
               
                  participants
                  the 90 female trainees who registered were sent the survey, and 48 (53%) responded voluntarily.
               
                  results
                  all respondents were female, 46% planned to pursue surgery or ir. students pursuing surgery/ir were less concerned about being valued by their colleagues (p = 0.0073), being in charge of patients’ lives (p = 0.0017), radiation exposure (p = 0.0171), chemical exposure (p = 0.0223), emotional stress (p = 0.0244), or shift work (p = 0.0045), compared to the nonsurgery/ir students. no differences were found in ranking of motivating factors, personal strengths or weaknesses, deciding factors, areas for seeking mentorship, or gender diversity. top motivations among all respondents were intellectual rigor of medicine and becoming a mentor, while concerns were personal physical health, managing a career, pay equity, and gender-based biases. students most often sought mentors and clerkship experience for making specialty decisions. they reported greatest strengths in empathy and resilience, and weaknesses in negotiating and public speaking.
               
                  conclusions
                  female medical students planning to pursue surgery/ir expressed greater confidence in their contributions to patient care and lower concerns about workplace hazards. regardless of specialty intent, female students shared scholarship motivations for a career in medicine, valued the role of mentorship, and expressed persistent concerns about gender discrimination, personal health, and skills-based weaknesses. identifying factors influential in career decision-making is important in order to recruit and retain a more gender-diverse physician workforce.nepotism is often condemned, but little is known about what people construe as nepotism, and why it is considered problematic. in five experiments, conducted in indonesia and the u.s.a., we addressed the question whether the employment of a competent family member is considered just as nepotistic and unfair as the employment of a less competent family member. in studies 1 (n = 101) and 2 (n = 200), participants construed the hiring of a relative within the same organization as nepotism, regardless of the relative’s competence. in studies 3 (n = 229) and 4 (n = 204), the hiring of relatives was seen as problematic because it violated principles of procedural fairness. study 4 also showed that nepotism was viewed as more unfair than cronyism (employment based on a social network). study 5 (n = 173) showed that perceived nepotism can hinder an organization’s ability to attract qualified personnel by demonstrating that potential job applicants were less likely to apply for a job at a prestigious but nepotistic organization compared to a less prestigious and less nepotistic organization.the authors tested for evidence of racial discrimination in the employment retention of national football league head coaches. a robust data set spanning the modern history of the sport (1985–2018) was generated to examine managerial employment tenure, dismissal, and subsequent organizational performance. after controlling for performance differences and heterogeneity between head coaches, the authors uncover statistically significant evidence that non-white head coaches experience longer employment spells relative to white head coaches in the rooney rule era. no statistically significant evidence of racial differences in the rate at which head coaches are fired is found. both employment tenure and dismissal are largely driven by raw performance, and to a lesser degree, relative performance. finally, the relationship between head coach race and organizational performance is examined, but no statistically significant differences by race are uncovered.hotel managers who run daily operations and interview new employees play a vital role in gender equality. based on the theory of planned behaviour (tpb), this paper examines the factors that affect hotel managers' intentions to hire females. furthermore, this paper integrates gender attitudes into the tpb framework. structural equation modelling was conducted with a convenience sample of 201 managers in egypt. results support the usefulness of the tpb framework. specifically, managers' attitudes, subjective norms, and perceived behavioural control were positively associated with female hiring intentions, which, in turn, predicted female hiring behaviour. results, however, reveal negative effects of gender attitudes on the tpb predictors. this paper contributes to the literature by examining the capacity of the tpb to predict female hiring intentions and extending this model by including gender attitudes as a relevant background variable. results position gender attitudes as an effective window of intervention for influencing female hiring.numerous correspondence studies have found strong and persistent evidence for racial discrimination in the u.s. labour market. however, since in the majority of studies race was the only variable that was manipulated, it is difficult to disentangle whether it is the ethnic background, the phenotype, the religious affiliation, or a combination of all that drives hiring discrimination. to answer this question, i draw on the theoretical framework of intersectionality and look at the role of ethnicity, as well as religion and non-white phenotype, and how they mediate discrimination outcomes using data from a correspondence study that was conducted across 49 states in the u.s. (n=2,107). the results show that next to racial preferences, employers also have ethnic preferences that influence their hiring decisions. in addition, i find significant evidence for an anti-muslim bias which is stronger for phenotypical whites than for phenotypical non-whites. although the overall penalty for applicants who are ascribed non-whites and who additionally have a muslim affiliation is higher in magnitude, the penalty is not statistically different from the penalty of either being non-white or having a muslim religious affiliation only. this result is not in line with intersectional theory and suggests that for some employers, one signal of otherness (either non-whiteness or muslim religious affiliation) is enough to elicit strong bias.this study aims to examine the effect of acculturation strategies on managers' person-environment (p-e) fit and hiring decisions. an experimental research design was employed, within whose context, four conditions were created and fictitious job interview record forms of applicants were presented to hotel managers in turkey. the findings revealed that the separated syrian applicant was evaluated to have a lower p-e fit. furthermore, the separated syrian applicant has a lower employability score than the other applicants and is less preferred for the vacancy in point. theoretically, the current research expands the current literature by revealing that acculturation preferences impact managers' assessments of p-e fit and their hiring decisions. in practice, this study highlights the importance of cultural awareness and intercultural skills for managers, and the need to implement rigorous assessment tools.we investigate hiring plans by solo self-employed workers at the time of business start-up using a survey of solo start-up entrepreneurs. we find a negative relationship between the tertiary education of the entrepreneurs and their future plans to hire employees, reflecting that motives other than income may be relevant for highly-educated solo self-employed to start a business. we suggest that a specific form of autonomy may play a mediating role in this relationship: pursuing self-expression in work, which is best realized by operating in a solo capacity in knowledge-intensive services (kis) sectors. we thus argue that the choice to operate in these sectors can be seen as an indicator of pursuing self-expression in work. our empirical analysis shows that the negative relationship between tertiary education and hiring plans is indeed mediated by the choice of kis sectors. our interpretation of this result is that pursuit of self-expression in work is the main reason for highly-educated solo entrepreneurs to refrain from hiring employees.psychologists have long since recognized that consumers have limited cognitive ability, and that this prevents them from weighing up all product attributes when making a choice. more recently, a new framework for consumer choice has been developed which takes account of this, by assuming that consumers are drawn to salient features of a product. we apply the framework of salient thinking to a simple transport market in which passengers may attach different weights to the utility of the trip (its comfort and/or duration) and the fare. we find the optimal fare structure in this market, and investigate under which conditions operators use their pricing schedule to focus passengers’ attention on fare, and when they direct attention towards trip duration or comfort. furthermore, we address the quality investments made by operators compared to a rational benchmark. quality enhancement in this model is increasing in the unit cost of providing the service. we finally discuss the implications of the theory of consumer choice, and the competitive model for transport markets compared to the predictions of a rational model. this leads to several testable situations which could give implications for policy makers and transport firms.this paper provides an up-to-date and comprehensive systematic literature review (slr) of the existing research on women on corporate boards (wocbs) and corporate financial and non-financial performance. the aim is to synthesise and extend current understanding of both the existing (i) theoretical (i.e., economic, psychological and social) perspectives and (ii) empirical evidence on the (a) multi-level (i.e., individual-, social-, firm- and country-level) antecedents of wocbs, and (b) the effects that wocbs have on a wide range of corporate financial and non-financial performance. we achieve this by adopting a three-step slr approach to analyse/review one of the largest slr datasets to be employed to date, consisting of 634 mixed, qualitative, quantitative and theoretical studies conducted in over 100 countries from more than 10 disciplines (e.g., accounting, finance, economics and governance) from 1981 to 2019 and published in 270 top-ranked journals. our findings are as follows. first, a large number of existing studies are descriptive and/or they draw on single rather than multi-theoretical perspectives. second, existing studies have focused on firm-level rather than country-level antecedents of wocbs. third, observable methodological limitations include the dearth of qualitative, mixed-methods and cross-cultural/country studies. finally, we outline opportunities for future wocbs research.this article looks at peer review in the “pure” pole (bourdieu 1996; dubois and françois, 2013) of the artistic field, in contemporary art music. based on observation of peer review panels in the united states and interviews with panelists in the us and france, i look specifically at the dynamics of evaluation in the upper middle of ranked lists – what i call the “fuzzy middle”. in this part of ranked lists, outcomes are unclear and often arbitrary. two factors primarily affect outcomes: 1) a lack of recall on the part of evaluators regarding the specifics of the objects being evaluated, which leads to an attitude of indifference, and 2) confusion as to how disputes over artistic quality should be resolved. i find that uncertainty is present especially regarding the role that emotional reactions to the music being evaluated should play. in addition, not all participants are willing or able to participate equally in the evaluation process (lamont 2009), and the interpersonal dynamics of these panels therefore heavily affects the outcomes of the evaluation. what results is that objects in the “fuzzy middle” are evaluated collectively using criteria that are developed ad hoc and on a case by case basis, as a way to translate emotional reactions into objectifiable criteria. i do not find, however, that quality uncertainty (karpik 2010; menger 2014) plays a role in these evaluations: at least at an individual level, these evaluators do not express doubts about their evaluations of artistic quality.monitoring by long-term investors should reduce agency conflicts in firms' labor investment choices. consistent with this argument, we find that abnormal net hiring, measured as the absolute deviation from optimal net hiring predicted by economic fundamentals, decreases in the presence of institutional investors with longer investment horizons. firms dominated by long-term shareholders reduce both over-investment (over-hiring and under-firing) and under-investment (under-hiring) in employees. the monitoring role of long-term investors is stronger for firms facing higher labor adjustment costs both in absolute terms and relative to capital adjustment costs, and those for which human capital is regarded as more important. the effect is also more pronounced for firms that have stronger incentives and/or more opportunities to deviate from expected net hiring. we address endogeneity concerns by exploiting exogenous changes to long-term institutional ownership resulting from annual reconstitutions of the russell indexes.radical innovation is crucial for a firm’s success, and organisations should promote it. prior research has argued that human capital is essential for a company’s innovation. however, the direct and indirect effects of human resource management (hrm) on radical innovation have not yet been determined. therefore, the present paper aims to explore the direct impact of hrm on radical innovation with a content approach and a process approach. it will also examine the mediating effect that learning through an exploration process has on hrm and radical innovation. using data from 200 medium-sized spanish industrial firms, our results demonstrate that strategic human resource management (shrm) has a positive and direct effect on radical innovation. we also find that an hrm system directed toward change and creativity and shrm positively support the process of exploration learning, and that competence exploration has a favourable impact on radical innovation. these results indicate that competence exploration mediates the effect hrm systems and shrm have on radical innovation.the paper attempts to explain how green training, an important human resource function, influences green creativity in the handicraft organisations. the mediating role of green dynamic capabilities and the moderating role of resource commitment are also examined. a survey of 211 handicraft managers is conducted to test the proposed hypotheses, followed by a qualitative approach in which cases of two handicraft organisations are examined. the findings of the study indicate that green training influences the organisations green creativity both directly and indirectly and that green dynamic capabilities further influence the green creativity indirectly via the moderating role of resource commitment to producing superior creative outcomes. the study is the first to assess green creativity as an outcome of green training. the mixed-methods approach used in the study helps in a better understanding of the proposed relationships, thereby developing the existing theory on green training, green dynamic capability and green creativity.contributing to the literature on brand stereotyping, we draw on the stereotype content model to investigate whether the content of the brand stereotype (in terms of warmth and competence) impacts consumers' perceptions of functional, emotional and social value. in doing so, we explicitly account for the brand's level of perceived globalness (pbg) and localness (pbl) as known influences on both stereotype content and value perceptions. across two studies, we find that brand warmth consistently and positively impacts functional and emotional value, whereas brand competence enhances functional value. the impact of the stereotyping dimensions on value is subsequently reflected in increased purchase intentions and higher brand ownership. surprisingly, none of the latter outcomes is affected by social value. our findings corroborate previous research showing that pbg and pbl are important drivers of brand stereotype content, but also reveal that brand warmth has a stronger impact on behavioral outcomes than brand competence.research has been focusing increasingly on measuring students’ prior economic knowledge in higher education. however, in german-speaking countries, valid instruments are rare. a diagnostic study investigated the validity and fairness of an internationally established economic knowledge test (adapted german version of tuce iv and tel iv) with a representative sample of 7664 students from 46 universities across germany. previous findings with the dataset (zlatkin-troitschanskaia et al., 2019a) suggest that native language significantly predicts missing answers in the knowledge test. similar effects can be found for gender. after coding missing answers as incorrect, students with a native language other than german and females are disadvantaged. using multiple imputation, group differences are still significant but to a lesser extent. this approach is critically discussed in terms of valid diagnostics and assessment in higher education.this study identifies sales managers’ perceptions of sales forecasting. we surveyed close to 400 business-to-business sales managers, split about equally by gender, and concluded forecasting-related preferences, beliefs, and desires. herein, we evaluate gender differences and identify some critical perceptions of women that differ from the perceptions of their male counterparts. we also compare attitudes, behaviors, and demographics of women and men. we conclude with organizational recommendations and implications for firms concerning hiring practices, forecasting tool selection, training and development, and the use of an employee resource group.this essay links the ubiquitous presence of algorithms with feminist engagements with agency. grounding our intervention in the concerns of feminist digital studies with embodied experiences of risk and vulnerability in digital networks, we call for feminist attention to the agential consequences of algorithms. we target especially the complex and compromised forms of agency that participants in digital networks share with both human and nonhuman others. drawing on feminist and technofeminist approaches, we characterize how contemporary digital networks, shaped powerfully by algorithms, not only fall short of ideals of safe, civil, public engagement, but also how algorithms--and the agency attributed to them within digital networks--constrain professional and activist work. guided by our concern for pragmatic implications of these agential complications, we address three key audiences: graduate students undertaking their professional development in this contemporary digital context; faculty members on search committees making high-stakes hiring decisions; and advocates seeking to bridge academic and public engagement around issues of injustice and equity. to these audiences we articulate seven feminist propositions to clarify and foreground the way algorithmic agency complicates routine rhetorical readings of digital participation.the literature on service encounters rarely disentangles linguistic preferences from their association with customers' ethnic preferences, and rarely studies the selection of the service provider. we analyse the choice of domestic workers in the brussels urban region, a region characterized by a high degree of ethnic and linguistic heterogeneity. a discrete choice experiment disentangles the linguistic from the ethnic preferences of households with respect to the recruitment of domestic workers before the encounter takes place. our results show that households attach substantial value to linguistic convergence: they strongly prefer a housekeeper that speaks their home language, while alternative common languages are still preferred over no communication at all. furthermore, after taking into account linguistic preferences, households still exhibit discriminatory tastes, with clear-cut ethnic preferences. the particular strength of the linguistic preferences is most likely due to the fact that domestic service encounters are recurrent and occur in the personal sphere.a unifying probabilistic framework is developed to analyze and compare the impact of the psychological biases of overconfidence and underconfidence on managerial perceptions about the expected value, overall risk, downside risk, value-at-risk and expected shortfall of decision-making economic variables. the results depict that overconfident managers overestimate their expected values and underestimate downside risk, var and es of decision-making variables. underconfident managers, on the other hand, underestimate their expected values and overestimate downside risk, value-at-risk, and expected shortfall.with the main goal of identifying the process factors associated with school effectiveness in secondary education, this work presents an innovative methodological proposal. based on secondary data from the spanish sample of pisa 2015, high- and low-effectiveness schools were selected by analysing the residuals of the school level (level 2) in multilevel models. subsequently, decision trees were used to identify the process variables with a greater predictive power for the identification of high- and low-effectiveness schools. while the hierarchical linear models obtained show inter-school variance scores greater than 10%, decision trees achieve a precision greater than 90%. we conclude by analysing the suitability of using decision trees in data originating from large-scale assessments, and examining the obtained factors associated with school effectiveness.signaling theory has been widely used to explain phenomena in personnel selection processes. we investigate whether and how signaling occurs in family businesses’ intra-family ceo successor selection. we apply a multiple case study approach using data from twelve german family businesses. our analysis affirms that hard-to-fake signals as well as costly signals are present in the intra-family ceo successor selection process. more interestingly, the specific context in family businesses influences the signaling game. signaling occurs during a much longer timeframe compared to non-family businesses, signals are sent and perceived in the private (owner family) as well as in the family business context, and negative signals are utilized by family members to exclude themselves from the pool of potential successors. we derive several propositions that we integrate into a conceptual model and discuss the implications of our findings for theory and practice in the family and the non-family business contexts.using a panel of eighteen oecd countries, we find empirically that the long-run effects of higher productivity of tradables relative to non-tradables vary across time, space and stages of the business cycle. more specifically, our evidence reveals that elasticities of the relative wage and relative price of non-tradables with respect to relative productivity of tradables increase over time. our estimates also show that the fall in the relative wage is more pronounced whilst the appreciation in the relative price is less in countries where labor markets are more regulated and during periods of recession. to rationalize the evidence, we differentiate between labor mobility costs caused by job search efforts and hiring costs resulting from search frictions in the labor market in a two-sector open economy model. while time-declining labor mobility costs can account for the time-increasing effects of a productivity differential, international differences in labor market regulation and variations of hiring costs across the business cycle, respectively, can rationalize the cross-country and state-dependent effects we estimate empirically. finally, labor market frictions have important implications for sectoral unemployment since labor mobility and hiring costs bias labor demand toward the traded sector which results in a greater decline in unemployment in tradables relative to unemployment in non-tradables following higher relative productivity.this study explores the current status of measuring attitude in the hospitality research and empirically examines the effect of the measurement’s format on research results. specifically, we review the hospitality literature that measures attitude and identify two emerging issues that need further investigation. two empirical studies follow to examine the measurement issues: the effects of measurement specification (study 1) and measurement formats (study 2) on research results. the findings from study 1 show that the magnitude of an attitude’s effect on behavior may vary depending on whether specific targets of attitudes are indicated in the measurement. in study 2, the results show that measurement formats may not significantly affect the research results, which contradicts the literature. our contribution is in providing hospitality researchers with guidelines on how to measure attitude.this paper studies experimentally whether potential perceived discrimination affects decisions in a labor-market setting with different stereotypes.  participants are assigned to a seven-person group and randomly allocated a role as a firm or worker. in each group, there are five workers and two firms. the only information firms have about each worker is a self-selected avatar (male, female or neutral) representing a worker's gender. each firm then decides which worker to hire. female workers react to potential discrimination when they know the task is math-related, but not otherwise. men choose similar avatar patterns regardless of the task. men do perform at much higher levels in the math-related task, but there is no difference in performance in the emotion-recognition task, where there is a strong female stereotype.this study extends the literature on teacher persistence by addressing teacher-job fit, defined as the degree to which a teacher possesses a core set of skills and related dispositions associated with the nature of the teaching profession. the sample includes 426 teachers hired out of a pool of 6207 applicants in a large suburban district. cox regression estimates indicate that the risk of migrating out of the district is reduced by concern with equity and respect for others and by cultural sensitivity. risk of attrition from the occupation is reduced by task orientation but is increased by effective communication.using a data set of 1,618 firms from 39 countries, we examine the influence of the educational attainment of a firm’s board of directors on its credit rating. we construct a leadership education index that reflects the educational level of the key members of the board. we document, after controlling for firm and country-specific characteristics, that firms in which the key members of the board have a higher educational level are more likely to receive better credit ratings. to ensure robustness in our results, we conduct a number of analyses and tests designed to alleviate endogeneity and correct for sample bias. our findings highlight the importance of hiring and retaining well-educated board members that are capable to manage firms and obtain better credit ratings.this paper studies the extent to which higher education graduates with higher intrapreneurial skills – creative, brokering, and championing skills – are more involved in innovation. crucially, we differentiate between graduates employed in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (stem) occupations and those employed in business occupations. using data on higher education graduates from 11 european countries, we find that, in both stem and business occupations, high levels of creative skills are important to involvement in innovation. higher levels of brokering skills are particularly important for graduates employed in stem occupations, whereas higher levels of championing skills are particularly important for those in business occupations. we find, however, that the innovative potential of graduates with higher levels of intrapreneurial skills is not optimally utilized for innovation. our study provides valuable insights for those selecting graduates for stem and business occupations based on specific intrapreneurial skills to foster both product and process innovation, as well as for those in charge of designing higher education study curricula.the introduction of the digital economy has opened much discussion on the various business models that challenge traditional thinking in b2b marketing. this includes technological innovation in the digital space which has brought about theoretical changes in the way marketing is applied, more so in the b2b environment where communication is essential in the alignment with various stakeholders. several discussions on ethical leadership in the digital economy have provided some insights into addressing increased complexity in a society where markets are connected (physically) yet disconnected (proximity) and this has led marketing practices going astray. our paper proposes the relevance of ethical leadership and its role in the application of technological innovation by arguing that technological innovation has a positive impact on firm performance and that ethical leadership plays a critical role in moderating this effect. we use a dynamic panel data system generalized method of moment (gmm) approach to examine secondary data from 465 it service companies and demonstrate that ethical leadership plays a critical role as it enables innovation through technology, and this has an impact on the firm's performance.drawing on self-determination theory, this paper investigated the level of racial discrimination in the hospitality industry and examined its effects on hospitality career satisfaction. based on a sample of 179 hospitality students who were working in the industry, the study showed that racial discrimination is prevalent in the hospitality industry such that people of color suffer from a higher level of discrimination than whites people. however, there is no difference in racial discrimination among racial/ethnic minority groups. structural equation modeling results also showed that a high level of racial discrimination results in a lower level of hospitality career satisfaction. overall, the results suggested that people of color have a lower level of career satisfaction via the mediating roles of racial discrimination and basic needs satisfaction. results have theoretical and practical implications related to racial discrimination, as well as diversity management and education.artificial intelligence (ai) is radically transforming frontline service encounters, with ai increasingly playing the role of employee or customer. programmed to speak or write like a human, ai is poised to usher in a frontline service revolution. no longer will frontline encounters between customer and employee be simply human-to-human; rather, researchers must consider an evolved paradigm where each actor could be either human or ai. further complicating this 2 × 2 framework is whether the human, either customer or employee, recognizes when they are interacting with a non-human exchange partner. accordingly, we develop an evolved service encounter framework and, in doing so, introduce the concept of counterfeit service, interspecific service (ai-to-human), interai service (ai-to-ai), and offer a research agenda focused on the implementation of ai in dyadic service exchanges.in this paper we empirically investigate the role of culture in determining the gender-targeting strategy of microfinance institutions (mfis). we use female/male grammatical distinctions in language as the manifestation of culturally-inherited gender values. our findings indicate that grammatical gender distinctions have a significant effect on the targeting strategy of mfis. specifically, mfis target women in cultures where they are most likely to experience financial discrimination. this suggests that mfis adapt to disparate discriminatory cultures in a way that serves their core mission of outreaching financially-excluded women, particularly where such strategy is most needed.this paper introduces a new gender-integration analysis framework to examine gender- and integration-responsiveness of relevant legislation in germany and sweden. the framework employs five analytical steps: 1) preparation of an ‘international legal frame’ to underline ‘gender’ and ‘integration’ needs at workplaces, 2) preparation of a ‘national legal frame’ to examine if existing legislation incorporates identified ‘gender’ and ‘integration’ needs, 3) compilation of subjective experiences of women migrants relating to discriminatory practices at workplaces, 4) interpretation of expert's perspectives towards missing legal clauses and existing barriers to implementation, and 5) classification of legislation with respect to their gender- as well as integration-responsiveness. the findings reveal that the prevailing legislation do incorporate ‘gender’ to some extent, but neglect ‘integration’ to a large extent and thus offer partial protection to women migrants against discriminatory practices at workplaces. the swedish legislation appear more gender- as well as integration-sensitive on selected needs than that of germany. the inferences underline a dire need to conduct proper ‘gender’ as well as ‘integration’ analysis of relevant legislation to ensure smooth economic integration of women migrants in both countries.we provide evidence from a real-world, high-stakes, and empirically-advantageous labor market — the market for nba basketball players — that employers’ hiring decisions rely too heavily on first-hand experiences with job candidates. specifically, we find that employers are biased in favor of acquiring players with better-than-usual performances when the employer’s team was playing or preparing to play the player’s original team, with performance information receiving approximately 1.8 times more weight in hiring decisions if it is conveyed through such first-hand experiences. these effects are not predicted by leading behavioral learning theories used to explain similar effects observed in other domains. instead, our findings point to overattention as a key mechanism through which first-hand experience biases can arise.often accused of granting questionable patents, examiners might lack proper incentives to carefully scrutinize patent applications. we analyze their examination and granting behavior in the presence of different incentive schemes that reward examiners based on rejected and/or accepted patents. our findings suggest that, for a given probability of random audit by the pto, a dual regime (based on both accepted and rejected patents) does not provide more incentive than a salary based on rejected patents. an optimal probability of random audit chosen by the pto is often too high compared to the first best, while the examiner chooses a suboptimal examination effort's level. lastly, we study the effect of career concerns on the granting behavior of examiners. we find that monetary and implicit incentives induce patent examiners to intensify their search effort. furthermore, a marginal increase of the random audit might reduce examiners’ effort in the presence of career concerns.green training is considered as crucial factor in green human resource management, stimulating environmental performance in an organisation. however, the effects of environmental training on the performance of organisations in the hospitality industry have so far been under-studied. at the same time, hospitality industry in india has attracted significant attention, and therefore deserves to be studied further. this study explores the mediating effects of green competencies and proactive environmental management maturity as well as the moderating effect of environmental commitment. in order to conduct empirical analysis, a survey instrument is developed for data collection. the results indicate the following relationships: (a) a positive and significant relationship between green training and environmental performance; (b) a mediating effect of green competencies; (c) a mediating effect of proactive environmental management maturity; and (d) a moderating effect of environmental commitment. this work provides insights towards the ‘human side’ of transitioning towards sustainable hospitality management.analyses of objective data from census and nationally representative samples illustrate that numerical occupational segregation by sexual orientation has existed for decades. the purpose of this study was to evaluate subjective perceptions of these and other occupations to determine the statistical validity of sexual orientation occupational stereotypes. drawing from social cognitive career theory (scct), we measured perceptions of gender, prestige, and sexual orientation for 60 occupations. participants (n=396) with experience in hiring and recruitment were surveyed and, as expected, many occupations were gender stereotyped and differed in prestige ratings. male-typed occupations were rated higher in prestige than female-typed occupations. regarding sexual orientation stereotypes, some occupations were perceived as ‘gay jobs’, but no occupations were perceived as ‘lesbian jobs’. gender of the participant was a significant predictor of two jobs that were sexual orientation stereotyped, make-up artist and fashion designer. theoretical and practical contributions are discussed.the increasing use of people analytics to manage people in organizations ushers in an era of algorithmic management. people analytics are said to allow decision-makers to make evidence-based, bias-free, and objective decisions, and expand workers' opportunities for personal and professional growth. drawing on a virtue ethics approach, we argue that the use of people analytics in organizations can create a vicious cycle of ethical challenges - algorithmic opacity, datafication, and nudging - which limit people's ability to cultivate their virtue and flourish. we propose that organizations can mitigate these challenges and help workers develop their virtue by reframing people analytics as a fallible companion technology, introducing new organizational roles and practices, and adopting alternative technology design principles. we discuss the implications of this approach for organizations and for the design of people analytics, and propose directions for future research.this paper addresses the mechanisms leading to income differences during the early career, both between individuals and between occupations. it compares the level of standardization, vocational specificity, and vertical differentiation of vocational education and training (vet) programmes and examines how these differences affect vet diploma holders’ incomes in their early careers. we go beyond previous research by developing refined theoretical concepts of vocational specificity, standardization, and differentiation and by measuring them with novel curriculum-based data. theoretically, the paper assumes that training programmes’ institutional characteristics determine income by influencing diploma holders’ productivity as well as the signalling power of the degree. we test our hypotheses by combining institutional data from vet curricula with individual-level data from the swiss labour force survey and by applying multilevel regression analyses. the results show that the institutional dimensions, in particular vocational specificity, are multifaceted and consist of several subdimensions, which impact young workers’ incomes to different degrees at various time points during their early careers.a failure of a large corporate investment project launched by a ceo may affect not only ceo's bonus and equity holdings, but also personal status and future career prospects. yet, merton's (1968) “matthew effect” would suggest that the risks and benefits associated with risky investment projects may be different for ceos of different status. high-status ceos are better able to decouple their status from their firm's performance failure and are in a better position to claim credit for the firm's successes. on the other hand, given that third parties have greater reluctance to accept quality claims of low-status actors, lower status ceos might not receive a commensurate credit for the success of a project, but might be exposed to a disproportionate amount of blame in case of project failure. since actors are usually aware of the presence of the matthew effect in their field, we can expect that the differential outcomes produced by it will be factored into actors' expected utility calculations, affecting ceos' attitudes to risk and visibility of their investment prospects. the findings from a 19-year sample of u.s.-based cellular telephone operators provide support for the theorized relationship between the matthew effect and ceos' investment choices.we study the importance of linguistic diversity in the workplace for workplace productivity. while cultural diversity might improve productivity through new ideas and innovation, linguistic diversity might increase communication costs and thereby reduce productivity. we apply a new measure of languages’ linguistic proximity to norwegian linked employer-employee manufacturing data from 2003–12, and find that higher workforce linguistic diversity decreases productivity. we find a negative effect also when we control for the impact of cultural diversity. the detrimental impact disappears over time as immigrant workers’ expected proficiency in norwegian improves since their time of arrival.how can new ceos – as the architects of their top management teams (tmt) – compose the executive group to realize high performance? we attend to this question by drawing on the notion of factional subgroups. we argue that tmt change after a ceo succession event can trigger a factional faultline between executives hired by the new ceo, and executives who had been tmt members prior to succession (the “guardians-of-the-previous-regime”). such faultlines might activate disruptive tmt processes in the succession's aftermath and, thus, hurt post-succession firm performance. we also argue that the detrimental effects of factional subgroups strengthen under conditions of poor pre-succession firm performance and predecessor dismissal, but mute in situations of orderly (follower) succession. overall, our research links faultlines theory with ceo succession research to advance our understanding of how tmt reconfiguration in strategic leadership transitions impacts organizations.in this study, we investigate how informal institutions, namely, chief executive officers' hometown connections with suppliers, impact firms' access to trade credit. using unique data manually collected from china, we find that hometown connections significantly increase access to trade credit. the hometown effect is more pronounced for non-state-owned firms, firms in provinces with poorly developed financial institutions, and firms whose chief executive officers come from hometowns with a strong merchant guild culture or hold an important position in the hometown's chamber of commerce. we suggest two plausible channels for the hometown effect: information and social trust. overall, this study contributes to the literature by documenting how hometown connections help firms to obtain external financing in emerging markets.background
                  letters of recommendation (lor) are considered one of the most important predictors of matching into a pediatric surgery fellowship. we determined if gendered differences exist in lor written for resident candidates.
               
                  methods
                  a retrospective review of blinded lor to a fellowship program between 2015 and 2017 was performed.
               
                  results
                  of the 364 lor reviewed for 49 female and 48 male applicants, male surgeons wrote 82.5% of letters. male lor contained more agentic terms (p = 0. 042), first name occurrences (p = 0.0082) and phrase “future success” (p = 0.015). female letters included more socio-communal phrases (p = 0. 010) and 5% referenced a spouse's accomplishments vs. 0% of male letters. male lor contained more active possessive language (p-0. 027); ie: “he published”, “he presented”. we found no difference in an applicant's research experience (p = 0.06) or leadership qualities (p = 0. 067).
               
                  conclusion
                  gender differences exist in lor written for fellowship applicants applying to a highly competitive subspecialty.in this paper, we extend the logic of existing sociological theory on status to explain how status processes can inform selection in competitive choice situations. we argue that in the absence of knowledge about the specific abilities of others and assuming a desire to win, when given the opportunity to “pick their battles,” people will draw on overt status differences as a basis for selecting a competitor from a pool of possible competitors. results from three studies indicate that, as predicted, status differences affect competitor selection, with individuals choosing to compete against those who are relatively lower status based on diffuse characteristics. moreover, consistent with expectation state theories, results from two studies show that the expectations that people form for their potential competitors based on status differences mediate this relationship. we conclude by discussing the implications of this research.this paper proposes an integrated theoretical framework for understanding women, work and violence in non-metropolitan contexts. despite the fact that the relationship between domestic and family violence (dfv) and the workplace is a growing focus of academic research, there remain certain lacunae within the literature. in particular, research that examines dfv and work in tandem is incredibly urban-centric, but also quite descriptive and a-theoretical, as well as quantitative in its methodological approaches. the lack of non-metropolitan research at the nexus of dfv and work is puzzling, given that established scholarship tells us firstly that dfv is more potent and complicated outside of big cities, and secondly that work is also harder to obtain and more complicated. in light of these issues, the current paper serves three distinct functions. firstly, it operates as a call for the generation of new research that addresses limitations within the academic conversation. secondly, it argues for the significance of research that illuminates the relationship between work and dfv in non-metropolitan locations; not only to address the existing knowledge gap, but also because the findings generated in these more ‘extreme’ scenarios may assist us in effectively addressing the dfv–work nexus more broadly. and thirdly, to facilitate the production of rigorous and holistic knowledge at the intersection of work, dfv and non-metropolitan experience, the paper proposes an integrated theoretical framework for understanding women, work and violence in non-metropolitan contexts. overall, it argues that such an integrated framework would necessarily need to account for the contextual factors of space and place, as well as feminist theory on work, and existing knowledge on both violence against women and the complexities of work in non-metropolitan contexts.the scientific community is engaged in an active debate on the value of its peer-review system. does peer review actually serve the role we envision for it—that of helping government agencies predict what ideas have the best chance of contributing to scientific advancement? many federal agencies use a two-step review process that includes programmatic discretion in selecting awards. this process allows us to determine whether success in a future independent scientific-research career is more accurately predicted by peer-review recommendations or discretion by program staff and institute leaders. using data from a prestigious training program at the national institute of health (nih), the ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa), we provide evidence on the efficacy of peer review. we find that, despite all current claims to the contrary, the existing peer-review system works as intended. it more closely predicts high-quality science and future research independence than discretion. we discover also that regression discontinuity, the econometric method typically used to examine the effect of scientific funding, does not fit many scientific-funding models and should only be used with caution when studying federal awards for science.when employers make hiring decisions, they often pass over highly qualified candidates belonging to minority groups. this research identified a choice-architecture intervention to nudge people to select more diverse candidates. partitioning job candidates by gender (study 1), nationality (study 2), or university (study 3) led people to choose more diverse candidates on the partitioned dimension, without lowering the average competence of the selected candidates (studies 5a and 5b). even experienced human resource professionals exhibited this effect (study 3). merely informing people that the candidates belong to different categories did not increase diversity (study 4). the effect of partitioning was stronger among people who had weaker stereotypes about the relevant category (study 6). when choosing a single candidate, people were more likely to choose candidates who were not partitioned together than candidates who were partitioned together (study 7). overall, we identify a nudge that can increase diversity in hiring.when approaching interpersonal first meetings (e.g., job interviews), people often cater to the target’s interests and expectations to make a good impression and secure a positive outcome such as being offered the job (pilot study). this strategy is distinct from other approaches identified in prior impression management research (studies 1a, 1b and 1c), and does not produce the benefits people expect. in a field study in which entrepreneurs pitched their ideas to potential investors (study 2), catering harmed investors’ evaluations, while being authentic improved them. people experience greater anxiety and instrumentality when they cater to another person’s preferences than when they behave authentically (studies 3a and 3b). compared to behaving authentically or to a control condition, catering harms performance because trying to anticipate and fulfill others’ preferences feels instrumental and increases anxiety (studies 4 and 5). taken together, these results suggest that although people believe using catering in interpersonal first meetings will lead to successful outcomes, the opposite is true: catering creates undesirable feelings of instrumentality for the caterer, increases anxiety, and ultimately hinders performance.recent neuroscience research has delineated key psychological components of reward: wanting, liking and learning. each component is further divided into explicit and implicit processes. while explicit processes are consciously experienced, implicit processes are not always directly accessible to conscious inspection. in the present study, we investigated the effect of metabolic state on implicit and explicit responses and their relationship in food context, especially when foods and visually matched non-food items are contrasted, and when foods in a sole food context but differing in energy content (high-energy - low-energy) or taste (sweet - savoury) were contrasted. sixty healthy non-obese females participated in the study in fasted and fed states. three implicit association tests were used to assess implicit associations. explicit liking and wanting ratings were assessed by visual analogue scales. in the implicit food–non-food context, food was preferred over non-food items both in fasted and fed states, though the strength of implicit associations declined significantly from fasted to fed state. however, the direction or strength of implicit associations was not significantly different between the metabolic states when comparing concepts within food context only, differing in energy content or taste. instead, explicit responses reflected the change in the metabolic state in a manner consistent with alliesthesia and sensory-specific satiety. the results of the present study suggest that implicit associations are relatively resistant to acute change in the metabolic condition compared to explicit ratings, which shift more readily according to the fasted-fed continuum. the shift in the prevailing metabolic state was, however, reflected in the strength of implicit responses towards food in relation to non-food items, yet in the sole food contexts implicit associations were comparable between the fasted and fed states.organizations that go green need their employees to perceive that sustainability is a priority in order to increase pro-sustainability behavior. several factors can influence how employees perceive their organization’s commitment to sustainability; however, no research has yet explored how green human resource management can influence that perception. this study thus examines the role of green hiring, green training, and green compensation, along with age and gender, in sustaining the organizational rationale for sustainability (ors). results from a sample of 275 portuguese employees, analysed through the fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsqca), shows that perceived ors is mainly grounded in green hiring, and to a lesser extent, in green training. green hiring is especially important for older employees, whereas younger employees require green training. green compensation is surprisingly irrelevant. the study is useful for researchers and practitioners who seek to understand employees’ perception about the value and priority their organizations give to sustainability.this research addresses a critical phenomenon in the global hospitality industry: aesthetic labor management. the study examines how frontline service employees’ managed display of aesthetics influences consumers’ (study 1) and prospective employees’ (study 2) brand evaluations along with other behavioral responses. study 1 revealed that consumers’ perceived aesthetic labor fit regarding employees’ static appearance and performative mannerisms can lead to positive brand evaluations and customer-based brand equity via the mechanism of conceptual fluency. study 2 found, via the same mechanism, that prospective employees’ perceived aesthetic labor fit of performative mannerisms—but not static appearance—can lead to positive brand evaluations, perceived value fit with the organization, and intentions to join the organization. theoretical implications, practical recommendations, study limitations, and suggestions for future research are provided on the basis of these findings.confrontation of discrimination can be seen as a form of morally courageous behavior, however those who engage in it presumably risk societal backlash. in three experiments, we examined societal perception of those who engage in confrontation of sexist (study 1 and study 2) and racist advertisement (study 3). we tested two competing hypotheses. first, prior research on confrontation of discrimination suggests that members of disadvantaged groups who confront injustice (i.e., targets) should be judged more harshly than members of advantaged groups who confront (i.e., allies). second, by drawing upon the insights from the work on do-gooder derogation, we proposed that allies and targets risk societal backlash, but more so from ingroup members than outgroup members. in study 1, we found that disadvantaged group members evaluated an ally more positively than advantaged group members. study 2 and study 3 revealed that the audience had a positive view of confronters. however, members of advantaged groups supported allies less than targets, whereas members of disadvantaged groups preferred allies over targets (study 2) or supported them equally (study 3). thus, our findings provide more support for the second hypothesis and we discuss their implications for the literature on moral courage, confrontation and do-gooder derogation.previous research has shown that the stereotypical characteristics of successful leaders are perceived to be congruent with the stereotypical masculine characteristics and incongruent with the characteristics stereotypically associated with women. the lack of congruency between stereotypical feminine characteristics and the stereotypical characteristics of a successful leader is considered to be one of the main causes of prejudice against women, who often face obstacles in achieving leadership positions. drawing on the theoretical and empirical evidence, we conducted two online experimental studies to investigate the perceived effectiveness of gay leaders; these studies involved, respectively, 192 and 202 heterosexual us men. specifically, in the first study, we hypothesized that participants with high levels of sexual prejudice would perceive leadership as less effective when the leader was gay rather than heterosexual, regardless of the gendered nature of the organization (masculine vs. feminine). in the second study, we tested the hypothesis that participants with high (vs. low) levels of sexual prejudice would perceive a gay leader who showed more stereotypical feminine characteristics to be less effective than a gay leader who showed more stereotypical masculine characteristics. moderated regression analyses confirmed our expectations. limitations, applied implications, and future directions are discussed.previous studies on the use of social networking sites (sns) in personnel selection generally focus on examining this phenomenon in the selection process as a whole. however, personnel selection is a macro-process composed of several activities. this paper aims to investigate how human resource professionals use sns in hiring decisions during the different stages of the selection process. the research uses an explanatory sequential mixed-methods approach. the first study consisted of a questionnaire-based survey of hiring professionals with the intent to describe various aspects of current practice (n = 429). survey data was analyzed using descriptive and inferential statistics. the second study comprised semi-structured interviews with hiring professionals to provide a more in-depth, richer analysis (n = 24). interview data was analyzed via qualitative thematic analysis. results uncovered two types of users. single-stage users emphasized efficiency concerns, whereas multiple-stage users mentioned to access profiles on an as needed-basis. participants reported that the patterns of use could be quite complex and dynamic, with selectors revisiting the profile of the same applicant several times for different purposes, or examining profiles of the same applicant in different sns. the assessment of sns information is typically non-systematic, but some employers reported using scales, mainly in pre-selection. evidence emerged of potential adverse effects during the selection process. overall, this paper contributes to theory and practice by providing a better understanding of the use of sns across the different stages of personnel selection. to our best knowledge, this is the first mixed-methods study of its kind.contemporary sustainable organizations are facing the dilemma of enhancing the intellectual and emotional commitment and engagement of their employees. this study aims to examine the underlying mechanism in the relationship between ethical leadership and employee engagement. drawing on the social exchange theory, this study investigates the mediating role of organizational trust and moderating effect of general self-efficacy on this relationship. data were collected through three-wave time-lagged study design from 212 employees working in public and private organizations. findings of this study demonstrated that ethical leadership influences organizational trust of employees, which in turn improves their engagement at the workplace. in addition, the effect of ethical leadership on employee engagement was found to be stronger for those individuals with low rather than high general self-efficacy. the theoretical and managerial implications are also discussed in light of the findings.purpose
                  to systematically review published research exploring workplace discrimination toward physicians of color with a focus on discrimination from patients.
               
                  method
                  the authors searched pubmed, psycinfo, cinahl, scopus, academic search premier, and web of science from 1990 through 2017 and performed supplemental manual bibliographic searches. eligible studies were in english and assessed workplace discrimination experienced by physicians of color practicing in the u.s. including physicians from ethnic/racial groups underrepresented in medicine, asians, and international medical graduates. two reviewers independently screened titles and abstracts, 3 reviewers read the full text of eligible studies, and 2 reviewers extracted data and appraised quality using joanna briggs institute checklist for qualitative research or the axis tool for quality of cross-sectional studies.
               
                  results
                  of the 19 eligible studies, 6 conducted surveys and 13 analyzed data from interviews and/or focus groups; most were medium quality. all provided evidence to support the high prevalence of workplace discrimination experienced by physicians of color, particularly black physicians and women of color. discrimination was associated with adverse effects on career, work environment, and health. in the few studies inquiring about patient interactions, discrimination was predominantly refusal of care. no study evaluated an intervention to reduce workplace discrimination experienced by physicians of color. ethnic/racial groups were inconsistent across studies, and some samples included physicians in canada, non-physician faculty, or trainees.
               
                  conclusion
                  with physicians of color comprising a growing percentage of the u.s. physician workforce, healthcare organizations must examine and implement effective ways to ensure a healthy and supportive work environment.the hiring process for some organizations includes pre-employment personality testing. the testing screens for desirable personality traits and are designed to meet a business need for cultural fit when filling a specific job. creating algorithms that filter for certain traits may create new forms of bias. the changing demographics in the united states presents the need for a more culturally representative leadership team that is less homogenous. there are legal implications for the use of pre-employment personality trait testing. understanding whether diversity and inclusion is in alignment with pre-employment personality trait testing hinges on interpretation and validation.background
                  our objective was to identify perceptions of the environment for women in surgery among 4 academic institutions.
               
                  methods
                  faculty surgeons and senior surgery residents were randomly selected to participate in a parallel study with concurrent quantitative and qualitative data collection. outcomes were perceptions of the environment for women in surgery. measures included semi-structured interviews, survey responses, and responses to scenarios.
               
                  results
                  saturation was achieved after 36 individuals were interviewed: 14 female (8 faculty, 6 residents) and 22 male (18 faculty, 4 residents) surgeons. men (100%) and women (86%) reported gender disparity in surgery and identified 6 major categories which influence disparity: definitions of gender disparity, gaps in mentoring, family responsibility, disparity in leave, unequal pay, and professional advancement.
                  overall 94% of participants expressed concerns with gaps in mentoring, but 64% of women versus 14% of men reported difficulties finding role models who faced similar obstacles. over half (53%) reported time with loved ones as their biggest sacrifice to advance professionally. both female and male respondents expressed system-based biases favoring individuals willing to sacrifice family. a global subconscious bias against the expectations, abilities, and goals of female surgeons were perceived to impede promotion and advancement.
               
                  conclusion
                  both female and male surgeons report substantial gender-based barriers in surgery for women. despite improvements, fundamental issues such as lack of senior role models, limited support for surgeons with families, and disparities in hiring and promotion persist. this is an opportunity to make substantive changes to the system and eliminate barriers for women joining surgery, advancing their careers, and achieving their goals in a timely fashion.immigrants contribute to the economic development of their host nation by starting business ventures. however, knowledge of whether or not their intentions to do so changes from generation to generation is not complete. we contribute to filling this gap by analyzing the role of generational status on immigrants’ entrepreneurial intentions. in order to explain the mechanism underlying this effect, we focused on the role of cultural intelligence and entrepreneurial self-efficacy. empirical analyses based on a sample of 289 respondents support our hypothesized arguments. we discuss the findings, advance theoretical contributions and draw implications for social and public policy.ballooning levels of societal inequality have led to a resurgence of interest in the economic causes and consequences of wealth disparity. what has drawn less attention in the scientific literature is how different levels of resource inequality influence what types of individuals emerge as leaders. in the current paper we take a distal approach to understanding the psychological consequences of inequality and the associated implications for leadership. we describe how the distribution of resources in contrasting animal and small-scale human societies incentivizes dominance-oriented versus prestige-oriented leadership strategies, and we use this framework to tease out a number of implications for modern organizational environments. in particular, we suggest that higher levels of inequality attract and favor dominance-oriented rather than prestige-oriented leaders, and that inequality incentivizes leaders to favor their own self-interest over the interests of the organizations they lead. we describe the features of modern organizations that might facilitate the emergence of dominance-oriented leadership and discuss the downstream consequences for organizations. finally, we explore the contextual and cultural moderators of inequality's relationship with leader/follower dynamics.forgetting is often considered a fundamental cognitive failure, reflecting the undesirable and potentially embarrassing inability to retrieve a sought-after experience or fact. for this reason, forgetfulness has been argued to form the basis of many problems associated with our memory system. we highlight instead how forgetfulness serves many purposes within our everyday experience, giving rise to some of our best characteristics. drawing from cognitive, neuroscientific, and applied research, we contextualize our findings in terms of their contributions along three important (if not entirely independent) roles supported by forgetting, namely (a) the maintenance of a positive and coherent self-image (“guardian”), (b) the facilitation of efficient cognitive function (“librarian”), and (c) the development of a creative and flexible worldview (“inventor”). together, these roles depict an expanded understanding of how forgetting provides memory with many of its cardinal virtues.the under-representation of women in academic leadership roles, including in anaesthesiology, is a well-documented phenomenon that has persisted for decades despite more women attending medical school, participating in anaesthesiology residencies, and joining academic faculties. the percentage of female anaesthesiologists who hold senior academic ranks or leadership roles, such as chair, lags behind the percentage of female anaesthesiologists overall. trends towards increasing the numbers of women serving in educational leadership roles, specifically residency programme directors, suggest that there are areas in which academic anaesthesiology has been, and can continue, improving gender imbalance. continued institutional efforts to recruit women into anaesthesiology, reduce gender bias, and promote interventions that foster gender equity in hiring and promotion will continue to benefit women, academic anaesthesiology departments, and the healthcare system overall.ai-enabled recruiting systems have evolved from nice to talk about to necessary to utilize. in this article, we outline the reasons underlying this development. first, as competitive advantages have shifted from tangible to intangible assets, human capital has transitioned from supporting cast to a starring role. second, as digitalization has redesigned both the business and social landscapes, digital recruiting of human capital has moved from the periphery to center stage. third, recent and near-future advances in ai-enabled recruiting have improved recruiting efficiency to the point that managers ignore them or procrastinate their utilization at their own peril. in addition to explaining the forces that have pushed ai-enabled recruiting systems from nice to necessary, we outline the key strategic steps managers need to take in order to capture its main benefits.this paper promotes the incorporation of the expanding uses of experimental methods in stratification research and beyond. social science experiments are usually criticized for their lack of external validity, especially their limited generalizability to real-life settings. we offer a critique of this concern by reaffirming the classical insight of experimental methodology that external validity should not be a key concern and focusing on some under-appreciated scientific payoffs to experimental control. we illustrate the opportunities for productive use of artificial and composite treatments in tandem to obtain three measures of inequality preference: generalized egalitarianism (derived from an incentivized behavioral game), acceptable merit-based economic differential (from a vignette experiment), and motivational value of income differentials (from a standard attitudinal item). this approach enables us to examine their roles in determining the perceived fairness of living standard given one’s effort—an outcome of much interest in subjective stratification research. the empirical results are based on a mobile phone survey of over 62,000 urban respondents, covering more than 330 of the largest cities in china. using fixed-effects to control for locational unobservables, we show that perceived fairness is positively associated with tolerance of merit-based pay differential and, surprisingly, strict generalized egalitarian preference, but not with belief in income differentials as motivator for effort. since the seemingly equivalent measures have very different predictive relationships with an individual’s perceived fairness, the results offer a cautionary tale of invalid interpretations that overlook the subtle nonequivalence among valid measurement strategies with differing degrees of realism.we ran a survey experiment with dutch employers to investigate hiring discrimination in sex-typical jobs. we ask if women are especially discriminated against when they have children, whether discrimination applies similarly in different occupations, and whether statistical discrimination or status-characteristic theories best account for discriminatory practices (if any).
                  employers rate fictitious candidates for either a female-typical job (primary-school teacher) or a male-typical job (software engineer). employers are found to display a slight preference for female candidates when filling a teacher post, although such bias is less strong for female applicants with children. no such ranking is found for a software engineer vacancy, nor do we find different salary offers across candidates and across vacancies. employers do not appear to favour men over women for positions likely to be on the career track, as predicted by statistical discrimination theories, nor do they expect women to be less capable than men, as posited by status-characteristic theory. female candidates with children, however, are expected to be less committed to their job and work fewer hours, especially in the teacher experiment. such expectations seem to have small consequences for the hiring decisions and salary offers dutch employers make in our study.while the field of (experimental) discrimination research is rapidly expanding and technology decreases the costs of designing and conducting field experiments, virtually all existing studies refer to a single country. yet, cross-national comparison is a cornerstone of stratification and inequality research and comparative designs are necessary to understand the conditions under which employers are more prone to making biased decisions. furthermore, previous studies often include only a handful of -typically the most marginalized- minority groups and restrict the experimental variation to ethnicity. we argue for a research design that reflects the geographical and demographic complexity of contemporary societies and is better suited to test the theoretical assumptions underlying discrimination. we discuss how external validity can be maximized in a comparative research design that is both factorial (simultaneously varying multiple treatments) and double-comparative (comparing multiple origin groups in multiple destination countries). drawing on our first-hand experience with the gemm study, a cross-nationally harmonized field experiment on ethnic discrimination in hiring, we show how this design can offer researchers new insight into the targets, drivers and scope conditions of employers’ discriminatory behavior.background
                  individuals with drug convictions are at heightened risk of poor health, due in part to punitive public policies. this study tests the effects of message frames on: (1) public stigma towards individuals with felony drug convictions and (2) support for four policies in the united states (u.s.) affecting social determinants of health: mandatory minimum sentencing laws, ‘ban-the-box’ employment laws, and restrictions to supplemental nutrition and public housing programs.
               
                  methods
                  a randomized experiment (n = 3,758) was conducted in april 2018 using a nationally representative online survey panel in the u.s. participants were randomized to a no-exposure arm or one of nine exposure arms combining: (1) a description of the consequences of incarceration and community reentry framed in one of three ways: a public safety issue, a social justice issue or having an impact on the children of incarcerated individuals, (2) a narrative description of an individual released from prison, and (3) a picture depicting the race of the narrative subject. logistic regression was used to assess effects of the frames.
               
                  results
                  social justice and the impact on children framing lowered social distance measures and increased support for ban-the-box laws.
               
                  conclusion
                  these findings can inform the development of communication strategies to reduce stigma and advocacy efforts to support the elimination of punitive polices towards individuals with drug convictions.using a survey experiment, we test whether discrimination against job candidates with a second-generation migration background varies by signaling either assimilation into the host society or attachment to the country of origin. in our study, swiss hr managers evaluate descriptions of fictitious cvs in which we vary the origin, language proficiency, and extracurricular activity of the jobseekers with and without a cultural context. the findings reveal that candidates with polish- or turkish-sounding names are evaluated worse than candidates with swiss- or spanish-sounding names. the effect of signaling attachment to the native and host country culture depends on the perceived distance of the cultural background. a candidate with a spanish-sounding name who speaks the native language and acts as a chairperson in a spanish cultural association is granted a better evaluation by employers. regarding the polish applicants, neither signaling attachment to the country of origin nor assimilation to the swiss background makes a significant difference. in contrast, regarding applicants with turkish-sounding names, signaling assimilation improves employers’ evaluation of their profile, whereas signaling attachment to the turkish culture either by an extra curricula activity or indicating proficiency in both the swiss and turkish languages leads to significantly worse evaluations. we conclude that especially for individuals stemming from origins that are perceived as culturally distant, signaling attachment to the culture of origin may result in a higher occurrence of discrimination, even when the signal indicates higher human- or social-capital of the jobseeker.older workers who lose their job are at great risk of experiencing long-term unemployment. this vulnerability can be due to negative selection into unemployment or to age discrimination by employers. we empirically test three explanations of why older jobseekers may struggle to get reemployed: employers promote internal careers; employers prefer younger workers for physically demanding jobs; employers perceive older workers as being too expensive. we test these hypotheses by analysing two experiments in switzerland. in a factorial survey experiment, 500 recruiters indicated for fictional cvs with ages 35–55 the likelihood of an invitation to a job interview. in a natural experiment, 1200 workers were surveyed two years after their plant closed down, allowing us to compare age gaps in reemployment among workers displaced by the same exogenous event. combining the two experimental methods allows us to increase internal and external validity. both the factorial survey among recruiters and the survey among displaced workers show large age barriers in hiring. unemployed workers aged 55 are much less likely to be considered for hiring than those aged 35 with the same productive attributes. this age penalty is larger for blue-collar workers and clerks than upper-level white-collar employees, throwing doubt on the internal career hypothesis. by contrast, results for earnings are consistent with the argument that older workers’ reemployment chances are hampered by high wage costs.scholars and commentators often argue that individuals do not care about their privacy, and that users routinely trade privacy for convenience. this ignores the cognitive biases and design tactics platforms use to manipulate users into disclosing information. this essay highlights some of those cognitive biases – from hyperbolic discounting to the problem of overchoice – and discusses the ways in which platform design can manipulate disclosure. it then explains how current law allows this manipulative and anti-consumer behavior to continue and proposes a new approach to reign in the phenomenon.this chapter will map the ethical and legal challenges posed by artificial intelligence (ai) in healthcare and suggest directions for resolving them. section 1 will briefly clarify what ai is and section 2 will give an idea of the trends and strategies in the united states (us) and europe, thereby tailoring the discussion to the ethical and legal debate of ai-driven healthcare. this will be followed in section 3 by a discussion of four primary ethical challenges, namely, (1) informed consent to use, (2) safety and transparency, (3) algorithmic fairness and biases, and (4) data privacy. section 4 will then analyze five legal challenges in the us and europe: (1) safety and effectiveness, (2) liability, (3) data protection and privacy, (4) cybersecurity, and (5) intellectual property law. finally, section 5 will summarize the major conclusions and especially emphasize the importance of building an ai-driven healthcare system that is successful and promotes trust and the motto health ais for all of us.a rich body of research throughout the social sciences demonstrates that bias—people’s tendency to display group-based preferences—is a major obstacle in the way of promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace. the current article moves beyond the single-level focus of prior theories of workplace bias to propose a novel theoretical model that conceptualizes workplace bias as a multilevel cycle. first, we discuss the theoretical foundations of our bias cycle theory and describe why understanding the nature of workplace bias—and effectively reducing it—requires considering the reciprocal influences of both individual and organizational levels of the cycle. specifically, we describe how workplace bias operates as a cycle and then propose that successfully reducing workplace bias requires multilevel interventions that interrupt bias across both the individual and organizational levels of the cycle. second, because workplace bias is reproduced through both of these levels, we review and bring together literatures that are often considered separately: psychology research on reducing bias at the individual level and sociology and management research on reducing bias at the organizational level. third, we use our bias cycle theory to formulate general principles for determining how to begin and how to pair interventions across levels. finally, we conclude by discussing our theoretical contributions and outlining directions for future research.the decision-making process demands data for analysis to obtain information on which the choice is made. using good quality data is crucial, and obtaining it may be challenging, especially in a short time from many sources. such a problem appears in a sample case of recruitment, where different abilities of many candidates must be verified. the problem is how to examine people for their skills and knowledge during the process of recruitment. this particular research was investigating the computer skills of potential employees. it can be easily used also for other procedures like periodic employee assessment or other performance tests. all of that is necessary to support proper decision making in hr. what is more, that is not only a problem associated with the mentioned department. it can also be met in other situations, where many people should be rapidly questionnaired, to obtain data, and prepare the analysis on the given subject.
                  the research aimed to design a complete diagnostic tool, to support and automatize the testing process and also support decisionmaking in that area. the automation applies to all stages, from exam preparation, throughout single test management and testing itself, up to final result and analysis. in this particular research, the problem was how to examine a large number of current or future employees to check their computer skills. the examination was based on the polish integrated qualifications system and qualification for the basic level of computer skills certificate [1]. the solution, which came up as the result of the research, is an ict tool for rapid preliminary testing and diagnostic. the tool is an author's system, that may be used for a preliminary test before the official exam, as well as for a rapid diagnostic tool to check skills and knowledge coverage and eventual gaps. as a result of a short automatic testing procedure, a complete analysis of examined person is prepared. that is essential informationthat may support the decision-making processes both in hr, or other areas.machine learning (ml) techniques offer exciting new avenues for leadership research. in this paper we discuss how ml techniques can be used to inform predictive and causal models of leadership effects and clarify why both types of model are important for leadership research. we propose combining ml and experimental designs to draw causal inferences by introducing a recently developed technique to isolate “heterogeneous treatment effects.” we provide a step-by-step guide on how to design studies that combine field experiments with the application of ml to establish causal relationships with maximal predictive power. drawing on examples in the leadership literature, we illustrate how the suggested approach can be applied to examine the impact of, for example, leadership behavior on follower outcomes. we also discuss how ml can be used to advance leadership research from theoretical, methodological and practical perspectives and consider limitations.this paper reviews and summarizes the forensic management literature from late 2016 to late 2019, covering laboratory decision making, business strategy, and industry identity and transparency. the review papers are also available at the interpol website at: https://www.interpol.int/content/download/14458/file/interpol%20review%20papers%202019.pdf.students’ judgments of their own learning are often misled by intuitive yet false ideas about how people learn. in educational settings, learning experiences that minimize effort and increase the appearance of fluency, engagement, and enthusiasm often inflate students’ estimates of their own learning, but do not always enhance their actual learning. we review the research on these “illusions of learning,” how they can mislead students’ evaluations of the effectiveness of their instructors, and how students’ evaluations of teaching effectiveness can be biased by factors unrelated to teaching. we argue that the heavy reliance on student evaluations of teaching in decisions about faculty hiring and promotion might encourage teaching practices that boost students’ subjective ratings of teaching effectiveness, but do not enhance—and may even undermine—students’ learning and their development of metacognitive skills.the current study aimed to explore the relationship between implicit and explicit gender bias in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem) fields, and selection behavior among seventy stem students. the selection behavior focused on gendered beliefs about stem ability by assessing via a selection task how often participants chose a male or a female as the better performer on a number of stem-related tasks. participants then completed an implicit relational assessment procedure (irap) and rating scales to assess implicit and explicit bias respectively. men and women stem students exhibited a statistically significant, large implicit pro-men-stem bias while women also demonstrated a significant pro-women-stem bias. explicitly, both groups demonstrated a male-stem/female-arts bias. while selection task scores were not significantly biased, they did correlate with implicit scores on the men-stem irap trial-type. the results highlighted the subtle nuances that can be revealed by assessing both implicit and explicit gender-stem biases, particularly when utilizing a measure such as the irap. limitations and future research directions are addressed.this is the third in a series of articles reporting on forensic epistemology. our first two research articles presented scientific results that are based in experimental design; including quantitative and qualitative responses from forensic science practitioners to scenarios and evidence. based on a synthesis of this research there is evidence of a knowledge gap in formal reasoning for some forensic practitioners, and a limited understanding of case-specific research. combining these results with a review of the current literature in the field of forensic reasoning, we now offer evidence of teaching and research strategies that can help increase the epistemic status (confidence in, and justification of knowledge) of forensic science claims. this paper focuses on an integrated narrative review using hermeneutic methods of analysis to identify: (i) the epistemic state of forensic science; (ii) strategies to increase of knowledge; (iii) the need for collaboration between practitioners and academics; and, (iv) areas for future research.experts (n
                     max = 102 answering) on intelligence completed a survey about iq research, controversies, and the media. the survey was conducted in 2013 and 2014 using the internet-based expert questionnaire on cognitive ability (eqca). in the current study, we examined the background of the experts (e.g., nationality, gender, religion, and political orientation) and their positions on intelligence research, controversial issues, and the media. most experts were male (83%) and from western countries (90%). political affiliations ranged from the left (liberal, 54%) to the right (conservative, 24%), with more extreme responses within the left-liberal spectrum. experts rated the media and public debates as far below adequate. experts with a left (liberal, progressive) political orientation were more likely to have positive views of the media (around r = |.30|). in contrast, compared to female and left (liberal) experts, male and right (conservative) experts were more likely to endorse the validity of iq testing (correlations with gender, politics: r = .55, .41), the g factor theory of intelligence (r = .18, .34), and the impact of genes on us black-white differences (r = .50, .48). the paper compares the results to those of prior expert surveys and discusses the role of experts' backgrounds, with a focus on political orientation and gender. an underrepresentation of viewpoints associated with experts' background characteristics (i.e., political views, gender) may distort research findings and should be addressed in higher education policy.the objects of moral goodness and moral beauty judgments both generally refer to the positive moral acts or virtues of humans, and goodness must precede moral beauty. the main difference is that moral beauty, but not moral goodness, triggers emotional elevation. however, little is known about the neural mechanisms involved in both judgments. in the current study, 28 healthy female participants were scanned when they rated the good and beautiful extent of positive moral acts in daily life depicted in scene drawings to investigate the neural systems supporting moral goodness and moral beauty, specifically to test whether neural activity associated with moral beauty is same or different than moral goodness. the conjunction analysis of the contrasts between moral goodness judgment and moral beauty judgment identified the involvement of the left inferior orbitofrontal cortex (ofc), suggesting that the two judgments recruited the activity of a common brain region. importantly, compared with the moral goodness judgment, the moral beauty judgment induced greater activity in more advanced cortical regions implicated in elevated emotions, including the anterior cingulate cortex (acc), medial prefrontal cortex (mpfc), superior frontal gyrus (sfg) and the left temporo-parietal junction (tpj). these regions have been strongly correlated with the cognitive aspects of moral cognition, including theory of mind (tom). in addition, moral beauty judgment also activated brain regions implicated in empathy including the midline structures and the anterior insula. based on these results, the brain harbors neural systems for common and for domain-specific evaluations of moral goodness and moral beauty judgments. our study thus provides novel and compelling neural evidence for the essence of moral beauty and advances the current knowledge of the neural mechanisms underlying the beauty-is-good stereotype.people are motivated to protect their worldviews. one way to protect one's worldviews is through prejudice toward worldview-dissimilar groups and individuals. the traditional hypothesis predicts that people with more traditional and conservative worldviews will be more likely to protect their worldviews with prejudice than people with more liberal and progressive worldviews, whereas the worldview conflict hypothesis predicts that people with both traditional and liberal worldviews will be protect their worldviews through prejudice. we review evidence across both political and religious domains, as well as evidence using disgust sensitivity, big five personality traits, and cognitive ability as measures of individual differences historically associated with prejudice. we discuss four core findings that are consistent with the worldview conflict hypothesis: (1) the link between worldview conflict and prejudice is consistent across worldviews. (2) the link between worldview conflict and prejudice is found across various expressions of prejudice. (3) the link between worldview conflict and prejudice is found in multiple countries. (4) openness, low disgust sensitivity, and cognitive ability—traits and individual differences historically associated with less prejudice—may in fact also show evidence of worldview conflict. we discuss how worldview conflict may be rooted in value dissimilarity, identity, and uncertainty management, as well as potential routes for reducing worldview conflict.big data analytics have transformed research in many fields, including the business areas of marketing, accounting and finance, and supply chain management. yet, the discussion surrounding big data analytics in human resource management has primarily focused on job candidate screenings. in this article, we consider how significant strategic human capital questions can be addressed with big data analytics, enabling hr to enhance overall firm performance. we also examine how new data sources that help assess workforce performance in real time can assist in the identification and development of the knowledge stars that contribute to firm performance disproportionately as well as help reinforce firm capabilities. but in order for big data analytics to be successful in the hr field, regulatory and ethical challenges must also be addressed; these include privacy concerns and, in europe, the general data protection regulation (gdpr). we conclude by discussing how big data analytics can facilitate strategic change within hr and the organization as a whole.identifying the best possible candidates for initial teacher education (ite) programs is one of the first steps in building a strong teacher workforce. we report three phases of development and testing of a contextualized teaching-focused situational judgment test (sjt) designed to screen applicants at a large and competitive ite program in the u.k. results showed that the sjt was a reliable and predictive tool that enhanced existing screening methods. we suggest that using state-of-the art methods to help make admissions decisions could improve the reliability, validity, and fairness of selection into ite.racial bias continues to act as one of the most thought provoking and controversial topics in our society. even as organizations implement steps and policies to minimize discriminatory practices, evidence of bias in organizational decision-making persists. while much research has been devoted to the study of racial bias in hiring and promotion decisions, this study focuses on the effect of biases on employment outcomes of minority leaders after they have been hired or promoted to leadership positions that are comparable in quality to those of their white peers (i.e. no glass cliff present). more specifically, we investigate how discrimination influences performance rewards and employment separation decisions pertaining to minority leaders. the study uses archival data from the national basketball association collected from the year 2003 to 2015. from this data set, we utilize measures of head coaches' objective performance, reward allocation, and their likelihood of employment separation to find limited support for the hypotheses that minority leaders are given less time in position to achieve success and that when they do achieve success, they may be less likely than white leaders to be recognized for their accomplishments. our findings suggest that in addition to researching selection processes, understanding why racial minorities are underrepresented in leadership positions also requires insight into the employment outcomes experienced by minority leaders.we examine the influence of chief financial officer (cfo) tenure and cfo board membership on accounting conservatism among australian listed companies. the study uses market-based (i.e., timeliness of earnings to news) and accounting-based (i.e., accrual-based loss recognition) measures of conservative accounting. the results show that while longer cfo tenure and cfo board membership increases accounting conservativism, this is not the case when cfos become entrenched through long board-membership tenure. this entrenchment appears to lead to the use of aggressive accounting practices. overall, the results indicate that cfo tenure and cfo board membership improve financial-reporting quality by increasing accounting conservatism in organizations, providing evidence of the importance of recognizing these two governance characteristics in policymaking and in regulation.using a three-players’ variant of the investment game with different group identity, we investigate how participants who take decisions on behalf of other behave differently than the party directly involved in a discriminatory context. we provide evidence that pure intermediaries (individuals who make decision on behalf of “owners” and who do not risk their own resources) are more prone to discrimination than “owners” (players who make decisions for themselves). the cause of the discrimination we observe is not hostility toward out-group members but is mainly triggered by preferences for in-group members. it seems that because of their position, intermediaries can express their preferences for in-group members more easily than the owners, although they feel responsible for the resources with which they play. moreover, our data suggest that owners are more prone to statistical considerations than intermediaries. finally, we observe a gender effect among intermediaries: women invest significantly less than men.this paper analyzes how the legalization of same-sex marriage in the u.s. affected same-sex couples in the labor market by using data from the american community survey. access to marriage led to amendments in tax, health insurance, and adoption laws that could have encouraged some same-sex partners to specialize in household production and decrease their labor supply. nevertheless, estimates from a difference-in-difference model show that the individual and joint probabilities of being employed increased among same-sex couples. additional evidence suggests that these changes in employment were driven by improvements in attitudes and lower discrimination against sexual minorities following the introduction of marriage equality.a seminal lancet series focused on increasing value and reducing waste in biomedical research, providing a transferrable template to diagnose problems in research. our goal was to document how some of these sources of waste apply to mental health and particularly psychological treatments research. we synthesize and critically evaluate empirical findings in relation to four major sources: i) defining research priorities; ii) research design, methods and analysis; iii) accessibility of research information; iv) accuracy and usability of research reports. we demonstrate that each source of waste considered is well-represented and amply documented within this field. we describe hype and insufficient consideration of what is known in defining research priorities, persistent risk of bias, particularly due to selective outcome reporting, for psychotherapy trials across mental disorders, intellectual and financial biases, direct and indirect evidence of publication bias, largely inexistent adoption of data sharing, issues of multiplicity and fragmentation of data and findings, and insufficient adoption of reporting guidelines.
                  we expand on a few general solutions, including supporting meta-research, properly testing interventions to increase research quality, placing open science at the center of psychological treatment research and remaining vigilant particularly regarding the strains of research currently prioritized, such as experimental psychopathology.we investigate in-group gender bias in real-world hiring decisions by combining administrative data with data from a large-scale field experiment on hiring in which fictitious resumes with randomly assigned information about gender were sent to swedish employers. our results suggest that women (female recruiters or firms with a high share of female employees) favor women in the recruitment process. in contrast, we do not find much evidence that men (male recruiters or firms with a high share of male employees) favor men.five studies test the relationship between overconfidence and perceived leadership suitability. study 1, a field study wherein hr consultants assessed candidates for an advertised leadership position, finds that overconfidence positively predicts hiring recommendations. study 2, in which participants delivered a five-minute job talk to an expert panel, finds that overconfidence buffers social stress, thereby improving participants' job pitches. study 3, which tested the effect of confidence on leadership selection at different levels of manipulated competence, finds that regardless of competence, confidence increases perceived leadership potential. study 4, finds that within the context of the 2016 us primaries, voters were swayed by candidates' confidence, regardless of candidate competence. study 5, an agent-based simulation, demonstrates that if candidates adjust to voter preferences for confidence, competent candidates become less likely to be elected. these findings suggest that overconfidence manifests behavioral displays that activate people's implicit leadership theories, thereby increasing perceptions of leadership potential.in this study, we examine the relationship between perceived overqualification and life satisfaction of an employee's close social ties, as mediated by employee's perceived career performance and life satisfaction. further, we propose that close social ties' perceptions of organizational prestige moderates this mediating process. in a sample of 118 employees from a greek organization in the gambling industry and their close social ties (i.e., spouses, romantic partners, parents, siblings, or close friends), we found that close social ties' perceptions of organizational prestige moderated the relationships of perceived overqualification with both perceived career performance and employee life satisfaction in a way that these relationships were negative only when employees' close social ties perceived that the organization where employees worked had lower (vs. higher) prestige. further, results showed that the indirect relationship between perceived overqualification and close social ties' life satisfaction via employee life satisfaction was negative only when prestige was lower, and nonsignificant when organizational prestige was higher. implications for theory and practice are discussed.the nurse leader may be unaware of the role unconscious bias plays in the success or failure of an organization. the subtlety of this prejudice may affect a leader’s perception and influence professional judgement and decision making in the areas of communication, hiring, promoting, or team selection. this article explores types of unconscious bias and offers the nurse leader practical advice for minimizing their detrimental effects.the current research set out to understand the stereotypes individuals hold about occupations, and to examine how occupational segregation is related to incongruences between demographic and occupational stereotypes. in study 1, we applied the stereotype content model (scm) to develop a novel classification of occupational stereotypes based on the dimensions of warmth and competence. we found evidence that occupations are reliably stereotyped along the dimensions of warmth and competence, and that raters agreed more on certain occupational stereotypes than others. in study 2, we mapped the occupational stereotype classification onto demographic stereotypes from the scm to predict occupational segregation in the united states. supporting an occupational stereotype incongruence hypothesis, women were more represented in occupations characterized by high warmth and low competence; asian people were more represented in occupations characterized by high competence; and black and hispanic workers were more represented in occupations characterized by low competence. this work contributes to the understanding of how individuals perceive occupations in society, provides researchers with a means for systematically comparing occupational stereotypes and demographic stereotypes by applying the same descriptive dimensions, and highlights the importance of occupational stereotypes for understanding and potentially alleviating occupational segregation.dr. thomas cash conducted seminal work on the beliefs and stereotypes related to attractiveness as well as their impact, and their transmission through cultural and interpersonal processes. this initial work has inspired and given rise to an important body of research significantly increasing our understanding of these processes. here we review the initial contributions and research directions set up by dr. cash, as well as the main findings of the research that has built on his foundations. specifically, we review findings related to the existence of attractiveness stereotypes and appearance ideals, research examining the social and interpersonal impacts of such stereotypes, and finally the sociocultural transmission of these beliefs. future directions related to the extension of our understanding to appearance characteristics beyond shape and weight, as well as increased focus on minority identities and their intersection, are proposed.according to neoclassical economics, sunk costs should be ignored in the decision-making process. although experimental evidence tells us that subjects often fail to do so, field evidence for this behaviour remains scarce. most empirical articles use data from draft systems in professional sports and analyse whether a player’s draft order affects his time on the pitch. in contrast to the draft system, european football teams frequently spend large amounts of money on transfer fees. the discrepancy between fee-bound and free transfers arouses suspicion to encounter the sunk-cost fallacy among football managers. using data from germany, i investigate whether this is indeed the case, i.e. that player utilisation is affected by initially paid transfer fees. i hereby contribute to the literature in three ways. to the best of my knowledge, i am the first to examine the sunk-cost fallacy in european sports and professional football. second, i am able to control for confounding factors previous studies have expressed concern about. third, i conduct the analysis on the level of individual matches, thereby obtaining a sample size many times larger than that of comparable studies. unlike the majority of previous articles that studied the sunk-cost fallacy in the context of professional sports, i am unable to find evidence supporting this behavioural bias on a seasonal level. a more detailed analysis on the match level reveals a sunk-cost effect which, however, is economically negligible and decreases with a player’s tenure. the results therefore corroborate a rational behaviour among professional sports team managers.this paper investigates whether individuals that we identify as “connectors”—who possess a blend of innate traits and skills that predispose them to be personable, willing to relate to others, and able to influence others’ relationships—can serve as a catalyst for improving group outcomes. more specifically, we explore whether identifying connectors and placing them in work groups can serve as a control to help firms manage undesirable voluntary employee turnover by improving the group experience and reducing their fellow group members’ turnover intentions. we conduct an experiment to test our hypotheses that members in a group with a connector (versus without) have lower turnover intentions because their experiences are perceived as more positive, and that this turnover intention effect is more pronounced for group members who are demographically distinct from others in their group. results are consistent with predictions, although the effect of connectors on lowering group members’ turnover intentions is driven by members who are distinct. our findings broaden the understanding of who connectors are and how they affect group interactions, and further suggest that hiring and deploying connectors in work groups can be an effective component of a more comprehensive retention strategy.organizations often state that they value diversity. the workforce, however, is often quite homogeneous, reflecting a striking mismatch between aspirations and reality. based on the distinction between desirability and feasibility concerns, we provide a psychological argument for this mismatch. we hypothesize that social distance influences individuals' choices regarding diversity. when being socially more distant, individuals prefer to assemble a diverse team, due to a stronger impact of pro-diversity desirability concerns. in contrast, when being socially close, individuals prefer similar team members, due to a stronger weighing of anti-diversity feasibility concerns. four studies investigate the different decision outcomes when being socially distant compared to close. study 1 shows that working in a diverse group is perceived as desirable, but less feasible. study 2 investigates the impact of psychological distance on individuals' choices of working with a more different (when being socially distant) or similar partner (when being socially close). study 3 shows that participants created a more diverse team for another person (distance condition) than for themselves (proximity condition). in study 4, participants did not create a more diverse group for a stranger (distance condition) than for a friend (adjusted proximity condition), however, participants weighted feasibility concerns less strongly for strangers than for friends. implications for diversity research and practice are discussed.despite equal matriculation into life science graduate programs, the gender gap persists for later-stage professional outcomes. to understand this divergence, we examine graduate training and use the competitive nsf graduate research fellowship program to identify high-quality life science students that are awardees and honorable mentions. we use a differencing research design to estimate the relative difference of the r&d award across gender on publication trajectory. the results of the triple difference estimation show a negative effect for women compared to men from the award. we investigate the driver of this effect by examining trends within gender and find a large, positive effect of the award for men but fail to find such evidence for female awardees. our results indicate different signaling effects across gender even though the funding is meritocratic.decision-makers consistently exhibit violations of rational choice theory when they choose among several alternatives in a set (e.g., failing to buy the best product in a set when it is presented alongside high-quality alternatives). many of society's most significant social decisions similarly involve the joint evaluation of multiple candidates. are social decisions subject to the same violations, and if so, what account best characterizes the nature of the violations? across five studies, we tested whether decision-makers exhibit context-dependent preferences in hiring scenarios and past u.s. congressional race outcomes and compared different models of value coding as sources of the hypothesized context-dependence. studies 1a, 1b, and 1d revealed that a divisive normalization value coding scheme best characterized participants' choices across a series of hiring decisions, and that participants exhibited context-dependent preferences. however, the distractor had the opposite effect of that predicted by divisive normalization once we accounted for the random effect of participant: as the value of the distractor increased, participants were more likely to hire the highest-valued candidate. in study 2, we used a combination of archival electoral data and survey data to examine whether normalization models could explain the outcomes of congressional elections. electoral outcomes were predicted by political candidates' inferred competence, but this time in line with the divisive normalization account. our findings offer mixed support for a formal, neurobiologically-derived account of when and how specific alternatives exert their effects on social evaluation and choice, and highlight conditions under which high-value distractors increase versus decrease relative choice accuracy.personality tests have been widely used for managerial and organizational decision-making in high-stakes settings. despite its popularity, the use of personality tests in high-stakes settings has been criticized due to faking. the existing literature reached somewhat inconsistent conclusions concerning the faking effect on the construct validity and the emergence and meaning of general factor of personality (gfp). however, it has not proposed clear moderators of the inconsistent research evidence. to fill the research gap, this research investigated the effect of various faking conditions (e.g., prevalence of fakers, percentage of faked items, and magnitude of faking effect) on the construct validity of the big five personality measure through a monte carlo simulation. the results provide important evidence of how construct validity can be affected by faking under motivated testing conditions. we discuss practical implications of the results and offer suggestions for future research.this paper analyses the ways in which ethnic identity and labour institutions shape favouritism and discrimination among workers. we conduct a lab experiment in the field with south african coal miners from various ethnic groups and with different trade union membership status. our analysis suggests that union identity and ethnic identity are two social constructs that operate in a distinct and opposite fashion. unionization acts as a factor of workers solidarity beyond the confine of union membership. conversely, ethnicity operates as the linchpin through which discrimination among workers is infused not only between ethnic majority and minorities, but also within the majority group itself. we find that the widespread practice of subcontracting in the mining sector exacerbates ethnic discrimination among workers both between and within ethnic groupings.breaking from tradition is necessary for scientific advancement, yet we know little about the factors that encourage scientists to break from tradition in their research, particularly by using methods that are unconventional in their fields. to address this gap, we integrate the sociology of science with insights from organization theory, which delineates the evaluative advantages bestowed on those with elite status and a consistent professional identity. we use a mixed methods design. bibliometric data on articles using three unconventional methods in sociology—correspondence analysis, qualitative comparative analysis, and sequence analysis—allow us to identify which types of scholars have a greater hazard of using unconventional methods and the conditions under which these associations hold. interviews with published, unpublished, and likely users reveal how scholars manage the career risks associated with unconventional method use. we find that scholars who are male and affiliated with top-tier universities, as well as those already committed to an identity consistent with the use of unconventional methods, have a greater hazard of using them in published work, though these associations depend on the extent to which the method diverges epistemologically from conventional methodology and the visibility of its lineage. in addition, we identify five successful (and two unsuccessful) strategies scholars use to manage their use of unconventional methods. taken together, results from this mixed methods study advance knowledge on scientific practice, extend organization theory, and provides guidance to policymakers and administrators who aim to foster risky, path-breaking research.most studies analyzing worker adjustments to discrimination focus on sorting decisions, such as occupations workers pursue. we instead analyze on the job adjustments, focusing on the effects of discrimination by customers and managers. specifically, we use observational and experimental data from large-scale restaurants to investigate the effects of the symmetry of waiter facial attributes on the trade offs they make, the extent to which the trade offs are shaped by consumer preference for symmetry, and whether the trade offs affect how they are treated by managers. we find customers have a preference for symmetry and that preferred workers consequently give them less personal attention. this allows preferred workers to serve more customers, generate more revenue for the firm, and more earnings for themselves. the large ensuing productivity and earnings differentials are facilitated largely by small differences in managerial treatment of preferred workers.the implicit association test (iat) has become a ubiquitous measure of implicit associations or preferences in several fields of research, including research related to food choices. the neural dynamics of the iat have been explored in several contexts, but in a food-related iat with stimuli of natural motivational value they are yet to be studied. additionally, the effect of metabolic state on them is poorly known.
                  the present study examined the event-related potentials (erp) in healthy non-obese females (n = 32) while they performed a food-related iat in two sessions, in a fasted state and after a meal.
                  the results showed differences in the erp components n400, p3 and lpp by congruence categories. additionally, the individual n400 and lpp deflections correlated strongly with individual iat effects. erp deflections were weaker in the fasted state than after the meal despite greater implicit hedonic motivation towards food in the fasted state.
                  in conclusion, the results suggest that erps reflect the iat effect. the n400, p3 and lpp components were evoked in a food-related iat in a similar way observed in iat tests in other contexts, reflecting a difference in meaning and motivation between congruence categories. the strong correlations of individual iat effect with individual n400 and lpp deflections further suggests that the food-related iat effect strength reflects the size of implicit food bias seen in neural deflections. moreover, fasting increased implicit hedonic motivation towards food, but likely reduced cognitive resources at the same time. this could have made it harder to determine the value of novel, task-relevant stimuli, whereas it became easier postprandially and with practice.political connections provide firms with legal advantages and can shield managers and directors away from litigation risk. using a sample of chinese public firms, we find that politically connected firms have lower demand for the directors' and officers' liability insurance (d&o insurance). the association is robust to heckman two-step selection model, an examination of market reaction to the departure of politically connected managers, a difference-in-differences analysis surrounding the hiring of a politically connected ceo, and controlling for firm performance. the effect is attenuated for firms in regions with strong market development and legal environment, but is accentuated for firms that are less socially important to the local government. our findings highlight a substitution effect between political connections and d&o insurance in protecting managers and directors against legal liability, and advance our understanding of the key drivers of d&o insurance purchase in emerging markets.safety researchers often rely on employee surveys, which are susceptible to impression management. the purpose of this investigation was to estimate the prevalence of impression management in self-report measures of workplace safety constructs in three distinct samples. results from an initial sample of research laboratory personnel indicated that impression management accounted for 28% of the variance in the relationships among safety constructs. in a second sample of research laboratory personnel, impression management was significantly related to safety constructs even after controlling for personality trait variance and accounted for more variance (35%) in the safety construct relationships than what was found in the first sample. a third sample of oil and gas personnel provided less support for the biasing effect of impression management, accounting for 11% of the variance in safety construct relationships. overall, these data suggest that impression management accounts for up to one-third of the variance in workplace safety construct relationships. safety researchers should seek to replicate these findings, examine interventions to reduce the prevalence and impact of impression management, and identify alternative sources or methods of assessment.while a large number of studies have shown the detrimental effects of abusive supervision on subordinates’ work attitudes and outcomes, little is known about how abusive supervision impacts supervisors themselves. drawing upon self-perception theory and power-dependence theory, we take a unique actor-focused approach to examine how and when engaging in abusive supervisory behavior may benefit actors (i.e., supervisors). specifically, we propose that abusive supervisory behavior is positively related to supervisors’ state sense of power, which in turn positively relates to their managerial self-efficacy and task-oriented leadership behavior. furthermore, the relationship between abusive supervisory behavior and state sense of power and the positive indirect effect of abusive supervisory behavior on managerial self-efficacy via state sense of power are stronger for supervisors with low, rather than high, levels of chronic sense of power. our hypotheses are substantially supported by a multi-wave field diary study (study 1) conducted across 10 consecutive workdays and three experiments (studies 2a, 2b, and 3). moreover, supplementary analyses showed that abusive supervisory behavior was positively related to sense of power and managerial self-efficacy only in the short term (i.e., these relationships turned negative after one week). our findings contribute to the abusive supervision literature by delineating a nuanced view of the supervisory outcomes of abusive supervision.physical attractiveness is an essential factor in consumers' evaluation processes during a service encounter. using both experimental and field study designs, we demonstrate that a service representative's physical attractiveness affects consumer response (i.e., customer satisfaction, service quality perception, and likability of the service representative). also, we find that a consumer's social distance perception between themselves and a service representative mediates the physical attractiveness effect on consumer response. thus, this article is the first to demonstrate that social distance perception is an underlining mechanism of the physical attractiveness effect. furthermore, findings from studies 2 and 3 show that consumers' physical attractiveness and their attractiveness-ability belief moderate the physical attractiveness effect. although contentious to some, our findings indicate that the recruitment of attractive representatives may be an effective business practice in service settings. however, managers should not regard consumers as a homogeneous group; self-perceived unattractive consumers may respond negatively to their service representative's physical attractiveness.structural approaches to personality have brought about considerable progress in description and prediction of interindividual differences in thoughts, feelings, and behavior. however, in order to move towards personality psychology as an explanatory science, we argue that structural, process-oriented and developmental approaches to personality have to be integrated. we summarize the main propositions of a theoretical framework published in a target article in the european journal of personality (baumert et al., 2017a), and highlight the resulting challenges for future personality research.the use of asynchronous video interviews (avis) and artificial intelligence (ai)-based decision agents enables more efficient employment screening compared with traditional synchronous video interviews (svis). however, the social impacts of using synchrony and ai decision agents in video interviews have not been investigated. drawing on media richness theory and social interface theory, this study employed a novel experimental design to compare human ratings and job applicants' response behaviours between the svi and avi settings and compare job applicants’ fairness perception between the avi setting and the avi setting using an ai decision agent (avi-ai). the results from 180 observations revealed that 1) first impression and physical appearance significantly affected structured interview ratings regardless of whether the video interview was synchronous; 2) compared with svis, avis lessened the primacy effect on physical appearance and initial impression among human raters; 3) job applicants had indistinguishable fairness perceptions regarding synchrony (svi vs. avi) and decision agent (human vs. ai); and 4) applicants exhibited less favourability towards avis than towards svis. findings from this experimental comparison, including recommendations for practice and future research on human resource selection, technology education, and social computing, are discussed.top management support is often proclaimed as a crucial factor for the successful use of value-based management (vbm). moreover, recent research indicates that cfos play a leading role in shaping management accounting and, particularly, vbm. although this suggests that cfo emphasis has a positive impact on the successful use of vbm, empirical research that considers the differentiating elements of vbm adopters is scarce. therefore, this study empirically investigates the performance implications of cfos placing emphasis on vbm and the challenge of upholding vbm emphasis following cfo succession. to accomplish this, we focus on a longitudinal sample of vbm adopters and assess cfo emphasis on vbm based on his/her remarks made during company conference calls. our analyses provide empirical evidence that cfo emphasis enhances the performance of vbm adopters. this phenomenon can, however, become a significant issue for organizations when new cfos take up office, as our results show that successor cfos, who were not in charge of the initial implementation, typically place less emphasis on vbm. nevertheless, we find that the vbm emphasis of successor cfos can be perpetuated by tying their compensation to vbm. in line with this, additional tests indicate a negative impact of successor cfos on the effectiveness of vbm only when compensation is not tied to vbm.as organizational diversity becomes increasingly common, human resource departments must learn to effectively manage heterogeneity through the development of inclusionary practices. although hr diversity and inclusion (d&i) practices seem like an adequate solution to workplace diversity, employee past experience and anticipatory justice regarding the fairness of hr initiatives may offer an explanation as to why such practices are not always successful at leading to positive perceptions and outcomes across employees. to begin to address this question, we use theory on uncertainty management to describe the role of cognitive biases on recollections of past experiences, and the role of anticipatory justice on fairness perceptions. moreover, we argue for several moderators of the past experience—justice expectations and of the justice expectation—justice perceptions relationships. the contributions of this proposed framework are discussed as are directions for future research and practical implications.this paper investigates how group identification distorts people’s beliefs about the ability of their peers in social groups. we find that experimentally manipulated identification with a randomly composed group leads to overconfident beliefs about fellow group members’ performance on an intelligence test. this result cannot be explained by individual overconfidence, i.e., participants overconfident in their own skill believing that their group performed better because of them, as this was ruled out by experimental design. moreover, we find that participants with stronger group identification put more weight on positive signals about their group when updating their beliefs. these in-group biases in beliefs can have important economic consequences when group membership is used to make inference about an individual’s characteristics as, for instance, in hiring decisions.prior research, and high-prolife contemporary examples, show that individuals tend to underestimate their own levels of bias. this underestimation is partially explained by motivational factors. however, (meta-) cognitive factors may also be involved. conceptualising contemporary egalitarianism as type of skill or competence, this research proposed that egalitarianism should conform to the dunning-kruger model. that is, individuals should overestimate their own ability, and this overestimation should be strongest in the least competent individuals. furthermore, training should improve metacognition and reduce this overestimation. two studies on racism (n = 148), and sexism (n = 159) partially supported these hypotheses. in line with the dunning-kruger model, participants overestimated their levels of racial and gender-based egalitarianism, and this pattern was strongest among the most prejudiced participants. however, diversity training did not affect participants' overestimation of their egalitarianism. implications for contemporary prejudice, and prejudice-reducing strategies are discussed.the electronic word-of-mouth (ewom) literature supports the robust finding that negative reviews are generally more influential to consumer behavior than positive ones. moreover, recent studies suggest that much of the negativity bias is driven by the distinct emotions embedded in the content of negative word-of-mouth (nwom) and the interaction effects between emotions and other source factors. although the gender of the information source is a common heuristic used in message evaluation, this is the first study to examine the effect of gender stereotypes on emotional nwom. two web-based experiments show that when reviewer reputation cues are present, emotional content in nwom lowers the credibility of male reviewers and the helpfulness of their reviews, but does not affect female-authored reviews. in contrast, when reputation cues are absent, the presence of emotions in nwom lowers the credibility of female reviewers, but not that of male reviewers. the reputation cue has a positive effect on nwom credibility and helpfulness. findings help companies understand the impact of gender stereotypes in online nwom and detect the most helpful nwom in order to correct product issues and improve future ewom.purpose
                  there are considerable gender and racial disparities in academic promotions regardless of academic qualifications, suggesting bias. the investigators studied the academic promotions process by simulating the work of advancement, promotion and tenure (apt) committees and applying a mathematical model to assess the impact of diversity on consensus reaching.
               
                  method
                  the study targeted academic faculty during an annual association of american medical colleges (aamc) meeting. participants evaluated the academic dossier of a male assistant professor with a focus on community engagement during four simulations. all dossiers were identical, with the singular exception of the candidate's race (white vs. black). committee composition varied with respect to racial diversity. participants scored the candidate before and after the deliberations. the degroot model was used to compare individual scoring to group convergence.
               
                  results
                  while there was no statistically significant difference in the candidate's overall scores between the groups, the least diverse groups rated the candidate the lowest (p = 0.0595). participants ranked activities related to diversity and equity as the least important. moreover, criteria deliberated more heavily showed significant score changes after deliberation. lastly, ambiguity about the review process at various institutions was reported by project participants, increasing the opportunity for bias in real world situations.
               
                  conclusions
                  while there was not enough statistical power to measure intragroup differences, the model shows promise in illuminating how individual perceptions, committee composition and group dynamics sway consensus reaching. the model also suggests that social research, community engagement and diversity work do not carry the same weight as traditional scholarship, impacting the career trajectory of minority scholars. the model can be used to evaluate bias not only in academic promotions but also in admissions, hiring and grant review. this will allow improved methods and processes for equitable academic performance reviews, enhancing the career trajectory and retention of minority scholars.this paper focuses on estimating wage differentials between males and females in egypt to understand the determinants of the gender wage gap. the methodology makes use of oaxaca-blinder and neuman-oaxaca decomposition techniques applied to data from the egypt labor market panel surveys of 2006 and 2012 (elmps 2006, 2012). the findings of this paper determine the differences in wages that are due to real variations in characteristics between genders, such as education, experience, living in urban or rural areas, marital status and sector of employment, and other differences due to discrimination against women, in addition to unobservable differences. it is estimated that the wage gap between males and females is 25% and 21% in 2006 and 2012, respectively, which is a sign of improvement. part of this gap can be explained by the fact that, females are less likely to have high-level and high-paying jobs than males but, another part of the gender wage disparities results from unobservable factors, like non-cognitive skills and psychological characteristics.this article aims to understand how universities as institutional agents imagine and construct neoliberal near futures for themselves. i examine the strategic plans of three major public universities in estonia. i treat these documents as certain kinds of future-oriented narratives, using analytical insights from narrative research. my particular focus is on how these future visions create gender-based and other hierarchies, exclusions and inequalities for particular categories of (differently positioned) actors in the context of universities.
                  i suggest that rather than being passive victims of the agenda of neoliberalisation, these universities should be seen as actively creating this ideology. this is manifested in the logic and language of neoliberalism used in the strategic plans. i identified and examined three key elements of this: 1) internationalisation 2) excellence and competition 3) the enterprising university. all three narratives and their implications are intertwined and reinforce each other to produce inequalities in academic settings.
                  the desirable futures constructed in the strategic plans suggest that universities are not able or willing to offer resistance or alternative future paths to the prevalent neoliberal ideology. instead, they are establishing themselves as advocates for neoliberalisation.there has been substantial prior field research on how the incidence of criminal behavior responds to changes in the probability of punishment. the results of this research are at best mixed in regards to its conformance to the predictions of standard expected utility theory. one possible cause for these mixed results is that punishment probabilities in the field are typically unknown making the choice environment one of ambiguity rather than uncertainty. the presence of this ambiguity could in part explain some of these conflicting results. as a step towards investigating this link, we conduct an experiment framed as being on tax compliance intended to try to understand how individuals respond to ambiguous punishment probabilities and in particular to how they respond to shifts in ambiguous versus known probabilities. we find that when probabilities are known and shift, the standard model works well to explain the response. when the probabilities are ambiguous and shift, the behavioral response is minimal. we also use these experiments as a means of testing whether ambiguity aversion might be present in sufficient degree to be exploitable in how enforcement procedures are advertised to increase their effectiveness at minimal cost. we find at best weak evidence in favor of ambiguity aversion and thus little support for the notion that enforcement regimes could take advantage of ambiguity aversion.objective
                  the medical profession seeks to hire and train individuals who consistently meet and/or exceed both job and cultural expectations. resident selection is often not structured to meet this goal. the objective of this quality improvement project was to evaluate a classic unscripted interview process (oi) in conjunction with a structured, scripted interview process (si) developed using an established hiring methodology from industry not yet utilized in health care. qualitative questions we sought to answer: (1) can si be practically applied to the selection of residents? (2) is there a significant difference in the relative position of applicants between the oi and si rank lists? (3) qualitatively, does si help the evaluation/discussion of the affective domain?
               
                  methods
                  design: prospective qualitative comparison of oi versus si.
                  setting: dartmouth hitchcock medical center, lebanon, nh.
                  participants: applicants were assessed by oi and si. si factors were selected based on a job profile. interview scripts were created from validated behavioral and attitudinal questions. online assessments assessed 2 important attributes - adaptability and values. rank lists were compared for relative rank position of applicants. feedback from faculty was obtained.
               
                  results
                  fifty-two applicants. critical attributes were self-management, integrator-synthesizer, versatility, communication, and achievement. absolute mean difference in rank/applicant was 9.8 (standard deviation 8.9, range 0-36) positions. comparing the top 20 candidates of each rank list, 40% of those applicants were only on one list. faculty felt that applicants were given a greater opportunity to show “who they are.”
               
                  conclusions
                  in conjunction with oi, an industry proven methodology was practically applied to define and select for high performance for the authors’ specific institution. comparing oi and si resulted in substantial differences in rank lists. this initiative seemed to provide a structure to evaluate values and motivations that are inherently difficult to assess. faculty felt si in conjunction with oi gave a greater chance for applicants to show “who they are.”rationale and objectives
                  to evaluate interview techniques currently used in the selection of diagnostic radiology resident candidates and to identify factors influencing the use of alternative interview techniques.
               
                  materials and methods
                  an anonymous 25 question e-mail survey was provided to 319 active members of the association of program directors in radiology. the survey included questions on residency demographics, organization of resident applicant interviews, types of interview techniques utilized, scoring and ranking of applicants, and facets of the interview/application felt most important to the selection process. statistical analysis was performed to identify factors associated with the use of alternative interview techniques.
               
                  results
                  93.7% of responding programs use traditional interview techniques, with 92% using unblinded, unstructured interviews, 8% blinded, unstructured interviews. structured interview questions were incorporated in 22%. few programs used alternative techniques like the multiple mini-interview. none of the programs used written prompts during the interview, 3% used casual visual cognitive testing, 10% used panel interview techniques, and none used formal personality testing. for ranking candidates in the match, the most important facets considered were usmle step scores, performance on the interview, clinical course grades, and letters of reference. factors associated with use of alternative techniques were domains associated with program size and number of faculty.
               
                  conclusion
                  the majority of radiology training programs still rely upon the traditional unblinded interview technique. there is an opportunity for training programs to examine alternative techniques that reduce bias and may provide better insight into other aspects of the candidate that may not be as readily highlighted with the traditional, unblinded interview.we investigate theoretically and empirically how connections in evaluation committees affect application decisions. prospective candidates who are connected to a committee member may be more likely to apply if they anticipate a premium at the evaluation stage. however, when failure is costly and connections convey information to potential applicants regarding their chances of success, the impact of connections on application decisions is ambiguous. we document the relevance of this information channel using data from national evaluations in italian academia. we find that prospective candidates are significantly less likely to apply when the committee includes, through the luck of the draw, a colleague, a coauthor or a ph.d. advisor. at the same time, applicants tend to receive more favorable evaluations from their connections. overall, the evidence suggests that connected individuals have access to better information at the application stage, which helps them to make better application decisions. ignoring applicants’ self-selection would lead to an overestimation of the connection premium in evaluations by 29%.we investigate whether cfo debt-like compensation incentives and their alignment with ceo debt-like compensation incentives are associated with financial reporting quality. he (2015) finds that ceo debt-like compensation incentives are associated with higher financial reporting quality. consistent with agency theory, we extend he (2015) by considering cfo debt-like compensation incentives. overall, we find that cfo debt-like compensation incentives are associated with better financial reporting quality while controlling for ceo debt-like compensation incentives. these effects are present when the ceo and cfo compensation incentives are aligned with the same party. further, the cfo effect dominates that of the ceo when examining discretionary accruals, and complements the ceo effect for accrual quality. however, we are unable to find any evidence of an incremental joint effect from the alignment of the ceo and cfo debt-like compensation incentives.we exploit the exogenous variation in regional credit market competition brought on by banking deregulation to study the evolution of the gender gap in labor force participation in local us markets. we find that intrastate deregulation increased substantially female labor force participation rates, owing to three separate mechanisms: an increase in the rates of net job creation by private firms, an expansion of services-producing sectors, and an increase in the share of jobs requiring female-specific skills. this effect is robust to controlling for a range of socio-economic developments, as well as for a us-wide gender-specific trend. overall, intrastate deregulation reduced the gender gap in labor force participation by at least 7.5%.although speaking a foreign language is undoubtedly an asset, foreign-accented speakers are usually perceived negatively. it is unknown, however, to what extent this bias impacts cognitive processes. here, we used erps and pupillometry to investigate whether the negative bias generated by a short exposure to a foreign accent influences the overall perception of a speaker, even when the person is not speaking. we compared responses to written sentence comprehension, memory and visual perception, associated with native speakers (high and low social status) and a foreign-accented speaker (high social status). the foreign-accented speaker consistently fell in-between the high-status native speaker and the low-status native speaker. this is the first physiological demonstration that short exposure to a foreign accent impacts subsequent cognitive processes, and that foreign-accented speakers seem to be considered less reliable than native speakers, even with equally high social status. awareness of this bias is essential to avoid discriminations in our multilingual society.drawing on the information processing perspective, this paper investigates how young adults' attitude toward entrepreneurship is shaped by their beliefs about the role and activities of entrepreneurs. our first study (n = 129) reveals that young adults hold a biased set of beliefs. they believe that entrepreneurship affords agentic aspects (e.g., achievement, power, excitement), but significantly less believe in communal aspects which are, however, equally integral to entrepreneurship (e.g., interaction, pro-social behavior). in a subsequent experimental vignette study (n = 389), we show, that communicating the communal nature of entrepreneurship, specifically the pro-social aspects, improves both men's and women's attitude toward entrepreneurship. overall, our research suggests that portrayals of occupations shape young adults' beliefs about career options and thereby influence their attitude toward respective careers.we examine the extent to which the impact of the overseas business knowledge transferred by returnee entrepreneurs on firm performance is conditional on institutional factors. the findings show that informal institutional differences between the home and host countries strengthen the positive impact of overseas business knowledge on the performance of returnee-founded firms. there is a complementarity between informal institutional differences and local government policy support which jointly enhance the positive impact of overseas business knowledge. however, a well-developed local business infrastructure substitutes for the impact of informal institutional differences on the relationship between overseas business knowledge and returnee venture performance.although more generalist ceos command a significant pay premium and are known for initiating a variety of strategic changes, whether their sought-after experience is associated with higher firm performance remains unexplored. drawing on instrumental leadership and domain expertise frameworks, we propose a negative association between more generalist ceo experience (across different industries or firms) and firm performance, but one that is alleviated by longer tenure. based on a sample of 16,158 ceo-firm-year observations from 2243 firms, we find support for a negative association between more generalist ceo experience and firm performance, which is alleviated with longer ceo tenure. these preliminary results have implications for the increasingly common practice of seeking to hire more generalist ceos in an effort to improve firm performance.research into ‘first impressions’ frequently uses photographs of faces as representations of unknown others. this is the methodological solution to concerns about standardisation, sample size and experimental control. however, there is little work investigating the robustness of these first impressions through to first interactions. a sample of 97 pairs of stranger participants (n = 194) completed personality measures (big five and triarchic model of psychopathy), made personality and social judgments of a photograph of the face of their to-be partner, then engaged in 5 min (maximum) of unstructured interaction with their partner and then made their judgments again. the behaviour of the participants in the interaction was coded using 76 criteria by 13 trained coders. results showed that, judgments made before and after interaction were correlated, but different. personality judgment accuracy at time 1 was poor overall but improved at time 2 participants for neuroticism, extraversion and psychopathic boldness. coded behaviours related to ‘engagement’ were those that influenced the person judgments the most, and these were related to extraversion, agreeableness and boldness of participants. overall, the results of this study show that first impressions of personality change from photographs to face-to-face interaction. person judgment research should be aware of the extent to which judgments of photographs relate to first interaction.five studies illuminate how the demands of the roles that people occupy can sometimes contribute to the maintenance of group inequality by promoting the accommodation of others' biases, even when those biases disadvantage an in-group or clash with personal views. when role demands to maximize candidate fit in hiring selections were strong, preference for job candidates of a given group tended to be lower when there were cues to third-party prejudice against that group (vs. no cues), irrespective of in-group favoritism effects (studies 1–5) or participant attitudes (studies 4 and 5). we found supporting evidence for the underlying processes in the context of hiring selections involving fictional groups (study 1) as well as female job candidates (studies 2–5). a concern with meeting the demands of the gatekeeper role was at the root of prejudice accommodation: when role-demands to prioritize candidate fit were strong, role-relevant considerations (interpersonal and task-focused) mediated the accommodation effect (studies 1 and 4). the more gatekeepers in charge of hiring sought to meet role demands by considering the preferences of relevant third parties, the more they accommodated third-party prejudice (study 2). moreover, role-based concerns mediated the accommodation of prejudice—but not other potential considerations that were unrelated to role demands (study 3). finally, the accommodation effect was eliminated when the role definition did not prioritize candidate fit (study 4) and when we experimentally reduced the strength of role-related concerns (study 5). these findings illustrate the relevance of the role concept for understanding the social transmission of bias.stratification research shows that occupational origins and destinations are weakly associated among individuals holding a college degree. the finding is taken to support the hypothesis that college equalizes opportunities and promotes social mobility. i test the competing hypothesis that the high level of social mobility reported for college degree holders results from the selectivity of this group. to control for selectivity, i reweigh a sample of college degree holders by the inverse probability of being a college degree holder conditional on observable characteristics of students before they enter college, including characteristics such as cognitive ability, personality traits, and beliefs about the future. analyzing data from the national longitudinal survey of youth 1979, i find no support for the selectivity hypothesis. these findings align with evidence based on indirect tests of the hypothesis, and indicate that college indeed appears to be an equalizer.rationale
                  intersectionality as a theoretical framework has gained prominence in qualitative research on social inequity. intercategorical quantitative applications have focused primarily on describing health or social inequalities across intersectional groups, coded using cross-classified categories or interaction terms. this descriptive intersectionality omits consideration of the mediating processes (e.g., discrimination) through which intersectional positions impact outcome inequalities, which offer opportunities for intervention.
               
                  objective
                  we argue for the importance of a quantitative analytic intersectionality. we identify methodological challenges and potential solutions in structuring studies to allow for both intersectional heterogeneity in outcomes and in the ways that processes such as discrimination may cause these outcomes for those at different intersections.
               
                  method
                  to incorporate both mediation and exposure-mediator interaction, we use vanderweele's three-way decomposition methodology, adapt the interpretation for application to analytic intersectionality studies, and present a step-by-step analytic approach. using online panel data collected from canada and the united states in 2016 (n = 2542), we illustrate this approach with a statistical analysis of whether and to what extent observed inequalities in psychological distress across intersections of ethnoracial group and sexual or gender minority (sgm) status may be explained by past-year experiences of day-to-day discrimination, assessed using the intersectional discrimination index (indi).
               
                  results and conclusions
                  we describe actual and adjusted intersectional inequalities in psychological distress and decompose them to identify three component effects for each of 11 intersectional comparison groups (e.g., indigenous sgm), versus the reference intersectional group that experienced the lowest levels of discrimination (white non-sgm). these reflect the expected inequality in outcome: 1) due to membership in the more discriminated-against group, if its members had experienced the same lower levels of discrimination as the reference intersection; 2) due to unequal levels of discrimination; and 3), due to unequal effects of discrimination. we present considerations for use and interpretation of these methods.how does availability of education affect who becomes a political representative? theorists have pointed out that access to education is a key to a well-functioning democracy, but few empirical studies have examined how changes in the access to education influence the chances of becoming a politician. in this paper, we analyze the effects of a large series of school openings in sweden during the early 20th century, which provided adolescents with better access to secondary education. we use administrative data pertaining to the entire swedish population born between 1916 and 1945. according to our empirical results, the opening of a new lower secondary school in a municipality increased the baseline probability of running for political office by 10–20%, and the probability of holding office by 20–30%.background
                  there is substantial research about the occupational health of nurses worldwide. however, empirical evidence about the psychosocial health of migrant and minority nurses in outpatient settings in germany in comparison to that of autochthonous nurses is lacking.
               
                  objectives
                  this study aims to identify work-related stressors, resources and the corresponding coping strategies of migrant and minority nurses in comparison to autochthonous nurses.
               
                  design
                  24 migrant and 24 autochthonous nurses employed in the german homecare sector were interviewed in qualitative explorative manner while a distinction was made between non-commercial and private-commercial services.
               
                  settings
                  the interviews took place in the nursing services' premises or in the nurses' private homes.
               
                  participants
                  services were randomly chosen among all homecare providers in the second largest german federal city-state hamburg. nurses were invited for an interview, once their management agreed to participate in the study. registered nurses and nursing assistants as well as those with a foreign certificate but validated or in process were eligible to participate.
               
                  methods
                  relevant literature findings formed the base for the semi-structured interview guide. key areas in the interview guide were barriers, resources and coping strategies in the collaboration with colleagues, superiors and clients as well as in the collaboration within a linguistically and culturally diverse team and clients. the conventional approach to qualitative content analysis by hsieh and shannon guided the analysis.
               
                  results
                  regardless of their origin or culture, nurses perceive time pressure, lifting patients, lack of appreciation or the client's personal fate as burdening. in the intercultural context, the divergent understanding of behavioral patterns as well as of nursing care and a non-functioning communication impede the collaboration within a diverse nursing workforce. migrant and minority nurses suffer prejudices, verbal and sexual harassment proceeding from their clients. however they keep it to themselves and don't broach it to their supervisors or colleagues. the interaction with humans, the verbal exchange with colleagues and supervisors at eye level as well as the sensemaking of being a nurse helps nurses to cope with occupational stressors.
               
                  conclusions
                  differences in language is a main stressor which impedes a functioning team collaboration as well as a positive nurse-client relationship. migrant and autochthonous nurses share similar coping strategies to master occupational burdens. a good collaboration within the team and having an appreciative supervisor are resources that support migrant and minority nurses as well as autochthonous nurses to face the stressors and to cope with those. migrant nurses of different origin perceive their status as migrants as a sense of community by sharing commonalities.
               
                  contribution of the paper
                  what is already known about the topic?
                        
                           •
                           the growing demand for care due to the demographic change leads to an increasing trend to hire healthcare personnel such as nurses from abroad.
                        
                        
                           •
                           the nurses' workplace is characterized by physically and psychologically demanding tasks leading to musculoskeletal pain and job dissatisfaction.
                        
                        
                           •
                           migrant healthcare workers experience additional stressors like discrimination practices as well acculturative stress.
                        
                     
                  
                  what this paper adds:
                        
                           •
                           migrant and autochthonous nurses share similar coping strategies to master occupational burdens
                        
                        
                           •
                           differences in language is a main stressor, which impedes a functioning team collaboration as well as a working nurse-client relationship. more autochthonous than migrant and minority nurses report these differences as stressful.
                        
                        
                           •
                           migrant nurses of different origin perceive their status as migrants as a sense of community by sharing the same destiny – this appears as an important resource for migrant and minority nurses.background
                  implicit bias has been documented in candidate selection within academic medicine. gender bias is exposed when writers systematically use different language to describe attributes of male and female applicants. this study examined the presence of gender bias in recommendation letters for surgical residency candidates.
               
                  study design
                  recommendation letters for 2016 to 2017 surgery resident applicants selected for interview at an academic institution were analyzed using qualitative text analysis, quantitative text mining, and topic modeling. dedoose, qda miner, and rstudio analytic software were used for analysis.
               
                  results
                  there were 332 letters of recommendation for 89 applicants (51% male) analyzed. of 265 letter writers, 86% were male, 21% chairs, and 50% professors. average word count was 404. letter writers for male compared with female applicants had a significantly higher average word count (male = 421, sd 144; female = 388, sd 140, p = 0.035). standout adjectives (eg exceptional), reference to awards, achievement, ability, hardship, leadership, scholarship, and use of applicant's name were most often applied to male applicants. comments on positive general terms (eg delightful), grindstone words (eg hard-working), physical description, doubt raisers, and work ethic were most often applied to female applicants. topic modeling and term frequencies revealed achievement words (performance, career, leadership, and knowledge) used more often with male applicants, while caring words (care, time, patients, and support) were used more often with female applicants.
               
                  conclusions
                  gendered differences examined through language and text exist in surgical residents' recommendation letters. implementing tools to help faculty write recommendation letters with meaningful content and editing letters for reflections of stereotypes may improve the resident selection process by reducing bias.electronic word-of-mouth (ewom) via social media and the internet is a popular channel through which consumers are communicating with other consumers. to increase ewom effectiveness, some resorts have developed alternative methods to incentivize consumers to generate ewom. these methods include: hiring reviewers, providing social currency to acquire products at a later date, or providing free product (stays at their resort). under the theoretical framework of the persuasion knowledge model (friestad and wright, 1994), the impact of these methods on consumers’ perception of the resort’s image, moral judgments regarding the methods, and attitudes toward the resort was studied through an experiment. we found that the different methods to incentivize ewom yielded significantly different moral judgments, which then predicted consumers’ attitudes toward the resort and the resort’s image. additionally, different levels of corporate social responsibility (csr) and consumers’ perception of industry practice norms also had effects on consumers’ moral judgments.much research has sought to understand how people construct their careers; however, only little is known about the career construction of older workers. to understand how people construct their careers in later life, we take a lifespan development perspective on career construction theory. specifically, we propose and test a model in which we take a closer look at older workers' career adaptability and aging experience (i.e., physical loss, social loss, personal growth, and gaining self-knowledge) as relevant factors shaping their late career planning. moreover, we explore whether these relationships are mediated by older workers' occupational future time perspective as an important underlying mechanism between adaptability resources (i.e., career adaptability), experiences (i.e., aging experience), and adapting responses (i.e., late career planning). we test our model with two-wave longitudinal data from a sample of older workers (aged 50 to 79) based in the united kingdom. results show that occupational future time perspective mediated the positive effects of career adaptability and personal growth, as well as the negative effect of physical loss on late career planning. overall, our findings contribute to a better understanding of late career construction and offers practical implications for older workers to purse activities that help them to successfully plan their late career.which characteristics predict leadership emergence in women after they work on group tasks in all-women groups? role congruity theory suggests that women need to temper their agency with communion in order to emerge as leaders. we investigated how ascriptions of agentic and communal characteristics were related to leadership emergence by analyzing data collected from women's leadership contests in 2 consecutive years. participants worked in groups on assessment-center-like tasks (study 1: n = 184). after each task, they identified individuals with leadership potential and described these individuals' characteristics. raters categorized these characteristics as agentic or communal. response surface analyses showed curvilinear effects of perceived agency and perceived communion on leadership emergence, indicating that women who tempered their agency with communion were most likely to emerge as leaders. analyses were replicated in a second data set (study 2: n = 185) with similar results.the internet has become a powerful platform for social mobilization. in this chapter, we discuss online activism as a method of confronting bias and prejudice (with a focus on sexism) by reviewing some recent real-world examples and scholarship of online activism. then, we describe how psychological factors can limit the potential success of online activism, such as how bias on the internet itself may act as a barrier that prevents people from engaging in online activism in the first place, “slacktivism” as a threat to a movement’s long-term success by allowing people to engage in small forms of online activism but disengage from further action, and the pressure to conform to egalitarian norms as a limitation of the strength and authenticity of a movement. finally, we offer some practical suggestions on how to overcome these limitations.although individual-level bias confrontations have received considerable empirical attention, most group-based training confrontations (e.g., “diversity trainings”) are neither evidence-based nor rigorously assessed. in this chapter, we discuss the prejudice habit-breaking intervention, which is evidence-based like individual-level approaches, but, like group-based trainings, is not focused on responding to a particular instance of bias in the moment. specifically, this training intervention helps egalitarian people to become (1) aware of, (2) concerned about, and (3) motivated to address their vulnerability to unintentional biases. the intervention teaches people that unintentional biases are like bad habits that can be overcome through sustained effort over time and provides evidence-based strategies to reduce unintentional biases. across several randomized-controlled studies, the prejudice habit-breaking intervention has shown considerable promise for empowering people to address biases within themselves and in the world around them, with long-lasting effects.why do presidents in semi-presidential regimes sometimes call early elections? is the behavior of incumbent presidents different from the behavior of presidential contenders when the former do not need to run for office but face the loss of parliamentary majority in a semi-presidential system? prospect theory claims that agents make risky choices when facing a loss. consequently, if incumbent presidents face a loss of majority in the parliament, they will call for early election to try to shore up or salvage the majority. to provide empirical evidence supporting this claim, prospect theory has been applied to the two presidential elections in yugoslavia and serbia in which two incumbent presidents, slobodan milošević (2000) and boris tadić (2012), had lost early presidential elections. the expected contribution of the paper is to deepen our understanding of how semi-presidential regimes resolve the problem of temporal rigidity and offer novel empirical data in support of the application of prospect theory in political science.in the early 1970s, when seminars in nuclear medicine started publication, little was known about the quality of reporting in biomedical journals. senior scholars were invited to become scientific editors of journals based on their research credibility and stature. their knowledge of journalology (publication science) was not assessed. similarly, while the use of peer review was gaining momentum, there was limited guidance on the tasks and expectations of peer reviewing. almost 50 years later, the evidence base regarding the quality of reporting is vast. this paper highlights some of this evidence including that relevant to imaging and nuclear medicine research. in biomedical publications, there is a crisis in reproducibility; high prevalence rates of reporting biases, such as selective outcome reporting; spin; low registration rates of research protocols; and endemic poor reporting of research across biomedicine. these issues and some more immediate solutions are also discussed in the paper. the use of reporting guidelines has been shown to be associated with better reporting of clinical trials and other research articles. the use of audit and feedback tools is likely to provide an important gauge about the functions of biomedical journals. finally, the push to better equip scientific editors and peer reviewers is taking a more concerted effort.nuclear energy has been regarded as a controversial energy option to reduce carbon emissions, alleviate global warming and transition to a low-carbon society. understanding public perceptions and acceptance of nuclear energy and identifying the determinants of acceptance are vital to make nuclear energy policy and establish nuclear energy program. based on a questionnaire survey conducted in china (n = 719), this study aims to examine public perceptions and acceptance of nuclear energy, and explore the effects of public knowledge about nuclear energy, perceived benefit, perceived risk and public engagement on public acceptance. this study indicated that public knowledge is positively and significantly related to perceived benefit and public acceptance, but not significantly related to perceived risk. perceived benefit and perceived risk are all positively and significantly associated with public acceptance. meanwhile, this study also demonstrated the positive effect of public engagement on public acceptance. in addition, this study also revealed that public knowledge, perceived benefit and public engagement in china are at a lower level, and public acceptance of nuclear energy is at a moderate level. however, the level of perceived risk is higher. based on the results, implications and suggestions are presented.background
                  no published study has explored gender differences in letters of recommendation for applicants entering surgical subspecialty fellowships.
               
                  methods
                  we conducted a retrospective review of letters of recommendation to a transplant surgery fellowship written for residents finishing general surgery residency programs. a dictionary of communal and agentic terms was used to explore differences of the letters based on applicant's gender as well as the academic rank and gender of the author.
               
                  results
                  of the 311 reviewed letters, 228 were letters of recommendation written for male applicants. male surgeons wrote 92.4% of the letters. male applicant letters were significantly more likely to contain agentic terms such as superb, intelligent, and exceptional (p = 0.00086). additionally, male applicant letters were significantly more likely to contain “future leader” (p = 0.047). letters written by full professors, division chiefs, and program directors were significantly more likely to describe female applicants using communal terms like compassionate, calm, and delightful (p = 0.0301, p = 0.036, p = 0.036, respectively). in letters written by assistant professors, female letters of recommendation had significantly more references to family (p = 0.036).
               
                  conclusions
                  gendered differences exist in letters of recommendation for surgical fellowship applicants. this research may provide insight into the inherent gender bias that is revealed in letters supporting candidates entering the field.political ideology is a central belief that drives individuals' behavior not just in the voting booth but also in other aspects of life. as political divisiveness in society has increased, the ramifications of this shift may permeate organizations ultimately affecting how individuals interact with one another. through the lens of social cognition and person-organization fit, this paper considers the effect of political ideology of job applicants in selection decisions by discussing 1) the definition of political ideology and subsequent stereotyping, 2) the increasing divisiveness rooted in political ideology, 3) the implication in selection decisions influenced by political ideology, and 4) the consequences for firm level diversity. further, a model is provided to illustrate the relationship of political ideology to various phases of the selection process. propositions to foster further study of these phenomena are provided within.women's representation in science and medicine has slowly increased over the past few decades. however, this rise in numbers of women, or gender diversity, has not been matched by a rise in gender inclusion. despite increasing representation, women still encounter bias and discrimination when compared with men in these fields across a variety of outcomes, including treatment at school and work, hiring, compensation, evaluation, and promotion. individual and systemic biases create unwelcome environments for women, particularly for those who additionally identify with other traditionally devalued groups (eg, women of colour). this review draws on several decades of research in the field of management and its cognate disciplines to identify five myths that continue to perpetuate gender bias and five strategies for improving not only the number of women in medicine, but also their lived experiences, capacity to aspire, and opportunity to succeed. we argue for a move away from a singular focus on interventions aimed at targeting individual attitudes and behaviour to more comprehensive interventions that address structural and systemic changes.we investigate the determinants of the promotion of chinese municipal leaders and find that leaders with greater perceived attractiveness have a higher probability of promotion. further exploration shows no correlation between a leader's facial traits and local economic growth under his jurisdiction. essentially, a senior government official's look significantly affects his chance of promotion but says very little about his ability to advance the local economy. our findings suggest that appearance-based discrimination exists when chinese political hierarchy screens political elites.the purpose of this review article was to examine the methods used for the selection of teachers for employment and prospective teachers entering initial teacher education (ite) programs, and to assess the predictive validity of these methods. we reviewed 32 studies reporting selection methods administered in high-stakes conditions and that included an external (not self-reported) teacher effectiveness outcome measure. the overall effect size was small but significant (r = 0.12, p < .001). moderator analyses showed that academic and non-academic predictors were both significantly associated with teacher effectiveness measures and that effect sizes were small (but significant) for selection into employment and ite. we conclude the review by proposing a research agenda that has the potential to enhance educational outcomes by improving the selection of prospective teachers.background
                  there are notable disparities in the training, recruitment, promotion, and evaluation of men and women in surgery. the qualitative assessment of surgical residents may be implicitly gender biased.
               
                  methods
                  we used inductive analysis to identify themes in written evaluations of residents. we also performed a content analysis of words fitting previously defined communal, grindstone, ability, and standout categories.
               
                  results
                  differences in themes that emerged from evaluations of male and female residents were notable regarding overall performance, references to the future, professional competency, job domains, disposition and humanism, and overall tone of evaluations. comments about men were more positive than those about women, and evaluations of men included more standout words.
               
                  conclusions
                  the more positive evaluations of men may handicap women if they are seen as less likely to perform well based on these evaluations. these differences suggest that implicit bias may play a role in the qualitative evaluation of surgical residents.competent women should aspire to leadership, but they may choose not to. we asked men and women at seven u.s. universities if competence, negatives of leadership, and experience affect their aspirations to leadership. surprisingly, competent women with more work experience are less likely to aspire to leadership than men, while competent women with less work experience are more likely to aspire to leadership than men. the more women associate leadership with negative aspects, the less they aspire to leadership, compared with men. for both, the less competent they think they are to be leaders, the less they want to be leaders.employee diversity, when effectively managed, can fuel employees to add value to the organization. our primary research aim entails the investigation into how diversity-oriented hr practices that address and value employee diversity contribute to employee work engagement. employees and their managers from diverse manufacturing industries in ho chi minh city, vietnam participated as providers of the data for the current research. our data analysis supported the positive relationship between diversity-oriented hr practices and work engagement among employees. the role of diversity climate as a mediator for this relationship was also substantiated. besides, the results provided evidence for the moderating roles of diversity-oriented leadership as well as group diversity in our research model.cultural diversity within accounting university classrooms creates a number of educational challenges that have been little investigated. this study draws on the theoretical framework of cultural intelligence (cq), which is new to accounting research, to enhance understanding of the intercultural capabilities of accounting academics. cq is comprised of four interrelated capabilities: metacognitive, cognitive, motivational and behavioural. the previously validated cultural intelligence scale (cqs) survey was used to identify cq levels and results were compared to demographic variables and other factors in order to explain differences. the results indicate that accounting academics display levels of cq at the lower end of comparable studies on other professionals. results also show that academics who have lived abroad for longer than one year and who have taught transnationally in southeast asia are likely to possess significantly higher levels of total cq. female accounting academics are more likely to possess higher levels of behavioural cq indicating a propensity to more easily adapt their behaviour in culturally diverse situations. this paper contributes to the growing literature on cq by increasing our understanding of the antecedents that influence cq levels in the area of international experience, through the examination of the potential impact of overseas teaching experiences and overseas residency. furthermore, this study introduces and examines new measures capturing the breadth and depth of international experience; that of long-term overseas residency and cultural distance.we investigate in the context of crowdsourcing how seekers can increase open innovation performance, measured as received solver attention, by making two strategic decisions: selecting innovation tasks that are well suited for crowdsourcing and choosing between the potentials of status signalling through identity disclosure versus enjoying the benefits of anonymity. drawing on uncertainty reduction theory, we suggest that a well-articulated problem statement reduces uncertainties of potential solvers and increases their willingness to participate. we argue that the ability of seekers to draft high-quality problem statements depends on the distance between the problem domain and their current knowledge stock. an analysis of 637 crowdsourcing projects finds that problem-seeker knowledge distance and received solver attention are curvilinear related such that moderate levels of knowledge distance maximize solver participation. however, high-status seekers who engage in identity-based status signalling are able to benefit from crowdsourcing across all levels of problem-seeker knowledge distance.internationalization is an important entrepreneurial strategy for promoting the long-term growth and survivability of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). family involvement in top management teams (tmts) can explain the heterogeneous behaviors of these firms’ international entrepreneurship process. this paper analyzes the moderating effects of the family’s influence on the relationship between entrepreneurial orientation and internationalization with two tmt diversities found only in family firms: the family tmt ratio and generational involvement. an analysis of 191 spanish family smes indicated that entrepreneurial orientation plays a significant role in explaining the degree of internationalization in family firms and that a diversely formed tmt shapes this relationship. a high concentration of family members in managerial positions hinders the international entrepreneurship process. this fact highlights the importance of hiring non-family managers to promote internationalization. the results also reveal that involving multiple generations in decision-making hampers entrepreneurial internationalization, generating control and coordination problems.in this article we introduce and propose a research agenda on tryouts, a hiring arrangement in which individuals spend time in organizations performing job-related work prior to the chance to become regular, full-time employees. we define tryouts as a construct and discuss how tryouts differ from traditional, direct hiring. we provide a typology of alternative hiring arrangements that serve as tryouts and evidence for their utilization. we theorize that tryouts stem from changes in the nature of work, organizations, and labor markets in the 21st century. for labor market researchers, we raise questions about not only the consequences of tryouts—such as who is hired, what kinds of jobs they lead to for workers, and the social and economic awards attached to such jobs—but also about the motivations of individuals who engage in tryouts, how these motivations (and the consequences of tryouts) differ across demographic groups, and how tryouts may create multi-tiered hiring systems. for organizational scholars, we suggest that tryouts update theoretical conceptualizations of hiring, and lead organizational behaviors to commence during hiring that demand further attention. while worthy of study in their own right, we also discuss reasons that tryouts offer an “ontological laboratory” for assessing theories on organizations, labor markets, and the origins and remediation of workplace inequality.the goal of the current manuscript is to embed the theory of mindsets about malleability in workplace contexts. we first define fixed-growth mindsets and the methods that have to date been used to study them. we then briefly review the domains in which mindsets have been documented to shape outcomes meaningfully, linking each to exciting research questions that we hope will soon be studied in workplace contexts. we also highlight some of the fascinating, new questions scholars can study by considering how mindsets might shape outcomes across a diversity of workplaces (e.g., the workforce of low wage and vulnerable populations). we further propose that studying mindsets in workplace contexts can develop mindset theory. we first ask whether workplace contexts provide opportunities to test for moderation on mindset expression. second, we see opportunity for studying moderation of mindset processes – evaluating whether the psychological processes through which mindsets shape outcomes may differ based on contextual factors that vary across workplaces. we argue that investigating these possibilities will advance both the theory of mindsets about malleability and the study of human flourishing in the workplace. we invite scholars to join us in this endeavour.stress can increase appetite and impair cognitive control over reward-driven or “comfort” eating. overweight and obese individuals experience high levels of personal and social stress and are more sensitive to the impact of these stressors. therefore, understanding the impact of stress on motivation and cognition is crucial to explain the drivers of overweight and obesity. in this chapter, we summarize the neurobiological basis of the interaction between stress, appetite, and cognitive control systems and analyze the evidence on the impact of stress on food-related motivation and learning, higher-order cognition and eating behavior, as well as their implications for obesity. we observed significant impacts of acute and chronic stress on food cravings, unhealthy eating patterns, and cognitive control processes, to which overweight and obese individuals are disproportionately sensitive. these impacts are underpinned by inherent connections between brain regions implicated in stress and energy regulation and brain systems implicated in reward coding, emotional learning, and “self-control.” stress seems to sensitize the response of reward and emotional systems to highly palatable food and to impair the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus inputs needed to regulate reward and emotion-driven overeating among people who are overweight and obese. therefore, prevention and treatment strategies directed to reduce stress exposure and boost stress and cognitive regulation are promising avenues to tackle the current obesity epidemic.the study of ageist attitudes at work is of critical concern today given that the workforce is not only rapidly aging, but also becoming increasingly age-diverse. our chapter addresses the operationalization of ageist attitudes via their component forms of stereotypes, prejudice, and discrimination toward individuals across the lifespan of their working career. we first address the nature of attitudes, and, more specifically, the nature of ageist attitudes, before presenting our review of the extant literature on stereotypes, prejudice, and discrimination that have been found to exist toward workers across the lifespan. further, and drawing on lifespan developmental theory, we highlight the impact of these ageist attitudes on the individual at work, and beyond, and call for greater understanding of the means through which ageism becomes institutionalized in the workplace.unknownover-education may arise from the voluntary decisions of individuals to acquire more qualifications than those required in the workplace, such that over-education may have a signaling role that allows workers to compensate for the lack of certain other skills, or to gain access to the labor market. this paper analyses the signaling role of over-education in spain, a country characterised by a strongly-segmented labor market with high unemployment levels, and a large number of over-educated. using micro data for a representative sample of spanish workers, three different methods are applied to provide evidence that educational mismatch plays a clear signaling role. policy implications are derived to alleviate inefficiencies in the allocation of educational resources and in the incentives of workers to use over-education as a signal.incumbents may opportunistically design policies increasing employment before elections or postpone cuts until afterwards. i investigate electoral cycles in public sector employment around us gubernatorial elections. exploiting staggered gubernatorial election cycles across states, i use both county fixed effects models and a geographic discontinuity design that compares neighboring counties at state borders with a difference in gubernatorial election cycles. consistent with manipulation, state and local government employment per capita are higher leading up to elections; afterwards, employment abruptly returns to normal. political and spatial heterogeneities are investigated, including by election competitiveness, term limits, incumbent party affiliation, and ideological alignment between the incumbent and the state legislature or local citizens. differences across types of government employment, and private sector employment, are also explored.a negative association between socioeconomic status (ses) and levels of overweight/obesity is consistently found in high- and middle-income countries. yet, there is little conclusive evidence about the mechanisms driving this association. in this systematic review, we discuss and compare the results of 22 studies that examine the role of psychosocial mediators in the association between ses and bmi in diverse population samples. these include factors related to resources and constraints in one's external neighborhood, social resources, and psychological factors such as stress. the findings support theoretical models indicating that ses is related to bmi partially through environmental and psychological factors. importantly, ses often remains a significant predictor of weight status, indicating the importance of also addressing structural antecedents in order to improve health among lower ses populations. we thoroughly discuss the quality and limitations of current study designs and mediation testing and provide recommendations for future research.this study investigates whether relative performance evaluations of labor output are biased in the presence of sentiment, even when the (supposedly independent) evaluators are external. data from a field-experiment setting—involving a pro-sport league's best-player award—allows for empirical testing of this proposition. after controlling for within-match performance, the results show that the match officials provide significantly better evaluations to players celebrating a ‘milestone’ game—an occasion on which sentimental favorites exist. however, this sentiment bias holds only in certain cases, and appears to have weakened in more recent years.continuum belief interventions that blur boundaries between “normal” individuals and individuals with psychiatric problems have shown promise in reducing psychiatric stigma. interventions to date have afforded participants considerable psychological distance from individuals with mental illness. an intervention that compels psychological closeness to individuals with mental illness may lead to increased anxiety/threat and an attenuated intervention effect on stigma. in a randomized experiment, one hundred thirty-five participants listened to a bogus interview involving an ostensible person with schizophrenia who shared numerous characteristics in common with participants. in the interview, the target person (1) did not verbally broach issues of similarity to “normal” people, (2) endorsed a continuum view, or (3) endorsed a categorical view. participants then read a bogus research article on schizophrenia that (1) was agnostic with respect to the continuum/categorical distinction, (2) attested to a continuum view, or (3) attested to a categorical view. correlational analyses demonstrated that greater endorsement of continuum beliefs predicted less stigma. experimental analyses demonstrated that the continuum intervention had no effect on stigma. the continuum intervention increased participants’ feelings of anxiety/threat, measured via self-report and a lexical decision task. these findings might usefully inform the design of stigma reduction programming centered on continuum beliefs.i analyze labor market matching with search and informational frictions, by studying employer recruiting on college campuses. based on employer and university interviews, i develop a model describing firms’ choice of target campuses. the model predicts that with costly screening, firms concentrate (per student) at selective universities over those where high-quality students are larger in number, but smaller in proportion. further, recruiting is affected by nearby universities’ selectivity. this prediction has strong support using data from 39 finance and consulting firms and the baccalaureate and beyond. for median-selectivity universities, a better regionally-ranked university is twice as likely to attract a consulting firm, and wages are higher by 4%. halving screening costs, for example through algorithmic screening, structural estimation shows a 27% increase in the proportion of expected hires from universities outside the top selectivity quartile.we investigate gender discrimination in a nationally-representative sample of german firms using a factorial survey design. short cvs of fictitious applicants for apprenticeship positions are presented to human resource managers who are asked to evaluate the applicants. women are evaluated worse than men on average, controlling for all attributes of the cv. this measure of discrimination is robust to differences in the variance of unobservable productivity characteristics (“heckman critique”). discrimination against women varies across industries and occupations. controlling for all occupation- and firm-related variables that we observe, only the share of women in an occupation correlates with discrimination.we experimentally investigate two questions that must be understood to effectively implement important normative prescriptions of optimal deterrence theory: i) does a non-monetary punishment and a fine of equivalent monetary value produce the same level of deterrence, and ii) should severe procedures, which maximize correct convictions of guilty defendants, be preferred to lenient procedures, which minimize errors in cases against innocent defendants? we examine these questions in an experiment where potential thieves face the possibility of punishment. as a non-monetary sanction, we require convicted individuals to perform a tedious real effort task. in the monetary treatments, sanctions are instead fines, which are based on individuals’ willingness to pay to avoid the real effort task to ensure comparability with the non-monetary treatment. the second manipulation in our experiment concerns the balance of errors in the adjudicative procedure (i.e. the conviction of innocents and acquittal of guilty individuals). we find that stealing is reduced most effectively by a sanction regime that combines non-monetary sanctions with a severe procedure. our data are consistent with the notion that both monetary punishment and pro-defendant sanction regimes are less effective in communicating moral condemnation of an act.elites in the u.s. have become increasingly polarized over the past several decades. more recently, the degree to which partisans view the opposing party more negatively than their own — a phenomenon called affective, or social, polarization — has increased. how does elite polarization inform affective polarization? we argue that partisans respond to increasing levels of elite polarization by expressing higher levels of affective polarization, i.e. more negative evaluations of the opposing party relative to their own. motivated reasoning further encourages partisans to blame the opposing party more than their own. results from surveys collected from 1978 through 2016 provide strong support for our theory. we further find that increasing levels of political interest magnify the relationship between elite and affective polarization. these results produce important implications for the health of democratic systems experiencing high levels of elite polarization.modernising agricultural activity is a key to boost the production level at high efficiency. the paddy industry in malaysia has been blighted with underproduced yield, which can be intervened with the adoption of green fertiliser technology (gft) amongst farmers. in this paper, the researchers have measured the intention level of farmers to adopt gft based on the psychological aspects based on the theory of planned behaviour(tpb). this study is a continuation of the previous studies by observing the direct and, more importantly, the indirect effects of the psychological aspects. surveys were conducted in the main rice granary areas in malaysia, such as integrated agricultural development authorities (iada), kemubu agricultural development authorities (kada), and muda agricultural development authorities (mada). to check the effects of the psychological factors, the partial least squares – structural equations modeling (pls-sem) approach was used to check the significance of those factors towards the intention to adopt gft amongst those farmers. the results have shown that direct and indirect attitude and indirect subjective norm, as well as direct-indirect perceived behavioural control, have a positive and significant influence on the intention of adopting. more importantly, the results have established behavioural beliefs, normative beliefs, and control beliefs to correspondingly affect attitude, subjective norm, and perceived behavioural control. overall, the study represents a guidance for key stakeholders to promote sustainable agriculture methods and innovations. these results advance theoretical understanding of gft and potentially contribute to predicting malaysian paddy farmers behaviour.in the present study, the effects of procedural justice (fair or unfair) and the type of decision agent (human, robot, or computer) on employee behavior and attitudes (e.g., job satisfaction, organizational citizenship behavior, or counterproductive work behaviors) were examined. it was predicted that the type of decision agent (or the source of justice) would moderate the relationship between procedural justice and employee behavior and attitudes, with the relationship being strongest when the decision agent is a human team leader, medium when the decision agent is a humanoid robot, and weakest when the agent is a computer system. this research question was investigated with a between-subjects design in two experiments (n
                     
                        1
                      = 149 and n
                     
                        2
                      = 145) that displayed two different decision situations in organizations (allocation of new tasks and allocation of further vocational trainings). results of both studies showed significant effects of procedural justice on employee behavior and attitudes, confirming the importance of procedural justice at the workplace for both human and system decision agents. furthermore, both studies failed to verify any interaction effects of procedural justice and the decision agent. this further emphasizes the importance of procedural justice in decision situations because there is no difference in reactions to procedural justice of human or system decisions. limitations and implications for future research and the integration of justice and human–machine interaction research are discussed.many decisions in life involve tradeoffs between two incommensurate options, so that one's choice reveals the values placed on the options. for example, judicial decisions weigh the possibilities of false convictions versus false acquittals. using a signal detection model, this research demonstrate that americans generally prefer a judicial error value tradeoff that favors relatively more false acquittals, a pattern generally consistent with the “blackstone ratio” (i.e., 10:1) in legal history. at the same time, there is substantial variation in these error value tradeoffs and several individual difference measures were assessed as potential factors to account for this variation. contrary to expectations, judicial error value tradeoff preferences were not significantly related to political liberalism/conservatism, individualism/communalism, social dominance orientation, or political party affiliation. there was, however, a significant relationship between greater authoritarianism and preference for less bias to avoid false convictions. a third study replicated this finding and extended the research scope to other error value tradeoff contexts (e.g., in military, immigration, and business regulation settings). additionally, study 3 found significant relationships between context-specific attitudes and libertarianism/authoritarianism, liberalism/conservativism, and social dominance orientation for immigration, military, business regulation contexts.this study contributes to literature on the internationalization of smes by analysing the influence of international market orientation, network capability, and international entrepreneurial orientation on the international performance of this kind of businesses. particularly, both the direct effects of explanatory variables of international performance and interdependence relations between them are analysed. results obtained from a sample of 161 mexican smes using sem-pls analysis show that the international performance of this kind of businesses is favourably influenced by their network capability and international entrepreneurial orientation, but not by their international market orientation. similarly, it is verified that interdependence relations exist among the explanatory variables of international performance of smes, where positive impact of international entrepreneurial orientation is observed on network capability and the international market orientation of smes.research shows that the mere presence of others and their physical appearance can influence people’s meal choices and food intake. studies also suggest that such effects are sex-specific and depend on whether the eating occasion includes same-sex or opposite-sex individuals. in five experiments (n
                     =530; 49% female), the author investigates whether mate attraction, induced by exposure to attractive opposite-sex individuals, has a differential effect on the foods and beverages that men and women prefer to consume. the results revealed that prior exposure to attractive (versus less attractive) men decreased women’s willingness to spend money on unhealthy foods, and increased their inclination to spend money on healthy foods. restrained eating moderated this effect, which means that women who scored high (versus low) on restrained eating were particularly motivated to spend money on healthy foods after exposure to an attractive male individual. on the contrary, exposure to attractive (versus less attractive) women did not influence men’s consumption preferences for healthy or unhealthy foods. however, men were more motivated to spend money on expensive drinking and dining options after exposure to an attractive female individual, and their desire to display status mediated this effect. importantly, none of these effects occurred after exposure to attractive same-sex individuals, which provides converging evidence that mate attraction is the fundamental motive underlying these findings. taken together, this research reveals how, why, and when appearance-induced mate attraction leads to sex-specific consumption preferences for various foods and beverages.individuals and organizations often fear that making a mistake in their pursuit of a goal will lead others to judge them as less likely to achieve that goal. we find that the reverse regularly occurs under systematic conditions. in six studies, we examine how observers perceive both organizations and individuals who make a mistake and correct it, versus those who actively prevent that same mistake from occurring in the first place. we find that observers infer that others who make—and correct—a mistake while pursuing a goal are more likely to achieve that goal than others who successfully prevent that same mistake from occurring. we further find that observers make this inference because, although observers construe prevention to mean that a goal pursuer has been consistently vigilant, they believe mistake correction requires more effort than prevention (even when it does not). moreover, the effort signaled by correction is perceived as more diagnostic of goal commitment than the vigilance signaled by prevention. consequently, observers judge both individuals and organizations that make and then correct a mistake to be more likely to achieve the goal imperiled by the mistake than an otherwise identical entity that actively prevented the same mistake from occurring in the first place. we further find that these benefits of mistake correction occur only when a mistake is attributed to an unstable cause. as a result, these benefits of mistake correction do not emerge in all contexts—for example, observers attribute a mistake to a stable cause when it is repeated or has very large consequences, and this stable attribution prevents the benefits of correction from emerging.previous research provides evidence that the adoption of green supply chain management (gscm) is associated with improved organizational performance, suggesting that gscm may help companies align environmental and economic goals. therefore, it becomes important to understand the factors that encourage gscm adoption. in addition to institutional drivers such as regulations, markets, and suppliers, we suggest that internal impetus, denoting an organization's inner motivation and managerial commitment toward environmental sustainability, is a key driver of gscm adoption. combining institutional and self-determination theories, we argue that markets and suppliers as non-coercive institutional drivers stimulate internal impetus while regulations, representing a coercive pressure, do not play this role. this leads us to propose a model of gscm adoption in which pressures from markets and suppliers are mediated by internal impetus, while regulatory pressures impact adoption directly. we test this model with a sample of 60 manufacturing companies in the u.s. midwest region using the partial least squares (pls) technique. our findings suggest that: (1) suppliers impact gscm adoption both directly and through the mediating effect of internal impetus; (2) customers and other market pressures on gscm adoption are fully mediated by internal impetus; (3) regulatory pressures have no impact on gscm adoption for the companies in our sample. our results highlight the importance of managerial commitment and the key role of suppliers in successful gscm adoption. we discuss the implications of these findings and provide recommendations for managers.professional connections between the creators and evaluators of scientific work are ubiquitous, and the possibility of bias ever-present. although connections have been shown to bias predictions of uncertain future performance, it is unknown whether such biases occur in the more concrete task of assessing scientific validity for completed works, and if so, how. this study presents evidence that connections between authors and reviewers of neuroscience manuscripts are associated with biased judgments and explores the mechanisms driving that effect. using reviews from 7981 neuroscience manuscripts submitted to the journal plos one, which instructs reviewers to evaluate manuscripts on scientific validity alone, we find that reviewers favored authors close in the co-authorship network by ∼0.11 points on a 1.0–4.0 scale for each step of proximity. plos one’s validity-focused review and the substantial favoritism shown by distant vs. very distant reviewers, both of whom should have little to gain from nepotism, point to the central role of substantive disagreements between scientists in different professional networks (“schools of thought”). these results suggest that removing bias from peer review cannot be accomplished simply by recusing closely connected reviewers, and highlight the value of recruiting reviewers embedded in diverse professional networks.despite consistent evidence that job insecurity has negative effects on employee outcomes, further investigation into the mechanisms underpinning these influences remains desired. the psychological contract perspective may not be adequate to explain the negative effect of job insecurity, especially when considering the trend of proactive perspective for work. to extend explanations beyond the psychological contract theory and invoke a self-consistency motivational argument, we propose that employees' self-evaluation of their worth within an organization (i.e., organization-based self-esteem, obse) can incrementally explain the negative influence of job insecurity. furthermore, we hypothesize that job insecurity would more strongly impair employees' obse for those who have more proactive personalities, resulting in more negative influences on their job performance and affective commitment. tests of related hypotheses, with a sample of 176 subordinate–supervisor dyads from china, support our hypotheses. we discuss the implications of these findings for research and practice.chinese companies are increasingly pursuing acquisitions from developed economies (de) with varying degrees of success. because of their late-comer and emerging-economy (ee) status, chinese firms are often perceived as having less legitimacy than the firms they are acquiring. in this study, we examine how chinese companies’ deal with this legitimacy imbalance by investigating five cases where chinese firms acquired firms from more developed economies. we find that there is a difference in internal and external legitimacy vis a vis internal and external stakeholders, and that their relative importance changes over the course of the merger process. external legitimacy is more important in the pre- and during- merger stages, while internal legitimacy plays a more important role in the post- merger stage. in addition, we find that during the three stages of the merger process, chinese mnes utilize various strategies in an attempt to address the legitimacy imbalance when entering a developed economy, such as relationship building, cooperation with co-investors, allowing the acquired company to operate independently in the first few years, and operational commitment. we discuss the implications of these findings for researchers and practitioners and suggest future research directions.this study examines the impact of external financing activities on earnings management decisions and further explores the role of enterprise risk management (erm) as a potential moderating factor in this association. we find that managers use both real-activities and accrual-based earnings management when engaging in equity financing activities. moreover, when firms have weaker erm systems, we find that managers are less likely to use real-activities earnings management in their equity financing efforts. therefore, our policy-relevant findings suggest that weaker erm systems can signal poor control mechanisms and attract additional investor scrutiny, thus constraining managers' use of real-activities earnings manipulation to harm long-term firm value.we examine investor stereotypes and implicit bias in crowdfunding decisions. prior research in formal venture capital settings demonstrates that investors tend to have a funding bias against women. however, in crowdfunding – wherein a ‘crowd’ of amateur investors make relatively small investments in new companies – our empirical observations reveal a funding advantage for women. we explain the causal mechanism underlying this counterintuitive finding by drawing upon stereotype content theory and testing a dual path moderated-mediation model. based on archival data and a follow-up experiment, our findings suggest common gender biases held by amateur investors function to increase female stereotype perceptions in the form of trustworthiness judgments, which subsequently increases investors' willingness to invest in early-stage women-led ventures. we discuss our results with specific attention to how our findings extend the entrepreneurship funding literature as well as the gender dynamics literature in entrepreneurship and organization research more broadly.selecting more productive employees among a pool of job applicants can be a cost-effective means of improving organizational performance and may be particularly important in the public sector. we study the relationship among applicant characteristics, hiring outcomes, and job performance for teachers in the washington dc public schools. applicants' academic background (e.g., undergraduate gpa) is essentially uncorrelated with hiring. screening measures (written assessments, interviews, and sample lessons) help applicants get jobs by placing them on a list of recommended candidates, but they are only weakly associated with the likelihood of being hired conditional on making the list. yet both academic background and screening measures strongly predict teacher job performance, suggesting considerable scope for improving schools via the selection process.objectives
                  previous work suggests that sleep restriction (sr) reduces cognitive control and may increase negative implicit biases. here we investigated whether sr might influence decision making on a social-evaluative task where individuals had to make judgments of threat based on facial photographs. furthermore, we investigated the effect of changes in negative implicit biases as a result of sleep restriction on this decision-making task.
               
                  design
                  fourteen healthy adults underwent two 3-week counterbalanced in-laboratory stays (chronic sr and control sleep [cs] conditions). participants completed the arab muslim names implicit association test (a measure of implicit bias/attitudes toward arab muslims) and the karolinska airport task (a measure of explicit decision making). the karolinska airport task requires participants to judge the potential dangerousness of individuals based on facial photographs.
               
                  results
                  after sr, participants were more likely to deem individuals with less positive and more negative facial features as dangerous than after cs. in addition, after sr, those participants showing higher negative implicit bias toward arab muslims tended to consider as more dangerous individuals with more quintessentially untrustworthy facial features (r = 0.76, p = .007), whereas this relationship was nonsignificant after cs (r = 0.33, p = .28).
               
                  conclusions
                  these findings show not only that sr may increase implicit biases against a particular minority group but that sr also modifies how individuals make explicit decisions about another's trustworthiness based on facial features. these findings may have important implications for many occupations where workers who are routinely restricted of sleep are also responsible for making judgments about other people's trustworthiness (eg, police, security, military personnel).recent meta-analyses indicated that interest congruence can predict performance both at work and in school. given these findings, the exclusion of interests from predictive models of performance has several potential consequences. in this study, we demonstrate that excluding vocational interests from models of performance has implications for the validity of the model as well as for understanding predictive bias in selection testing. using a sample of 1449 students from a large university, we examined the validity and incremental validity of vocational interests for predicting academic performance above and beyond act scores, high school gpa, and other noncognitive predictors. building on recent research, we also demonstrate that including vocational interests in the prediction model eliminates the predictive bias observed for act and hsgpa across men and women but not across racial/ethnic subgroups. the implications of these results for understanding performance and future research needs in the area of vocational interests are discussed.the cost and terms of private debt are affected by the social capital of the borrowing firm's chief financial officer (cfo), proxied by measures of social network centrality that identify the relative position of cfo in the hierarchy of executives. firms with cfos possessing higher social capital issue new loans with lower spreads and fewer covenant restrictions, controlling for all direct connections between borrowers and lenders. spread reductions are stronger for opaque firms and when cfos lack objective reputation verification. the results hold when controlling for cfo personal characteristics and firm attributes related to network centrality.we investigate the effect of female leadership on gender differences in public and private organizations. female leadership impact was constructed using a quasi-experiment involving mayoral elections, and our research used a sample of 8.3 million organizations distributed over 5600 brazilian municipalities. our main results show that when municipalities in which a woman was elected leader (treatment group) are compared with municipalities in which a male was elected leader (control group) there was an increase in the number of top and middle female managers in public organizations. two aspects contribute to the results: time and command/role model. the time effect is important because our results are obtained with reelected women – in their second term – and the command/role model (the queen bee phenomenon is either small, or non-existent) is important because of the institutional characteristics of public organizations: female leaders (mayor) have much asymmetrical power and decision-making discretion, i.e., she chooses the top managers. these top managers then choose middle managers influenced by female leadership (a role model). we obtained no significant results for private organizations. our work contributes to the literature on leadership by addressing some specific issues: an empirical investigation with a causal effect between the variables (regression-discontinuity design – a non-parametric estimation), the importance of role models, and how the observed effects are time-dependent. insofar as public organizations are concerned, the evidence from our large-scale study suggests that the queen bee phenomenon may be a myth; instead, of keeping subordinate women at bay, our results show that women leaders who are afforded much managerial discretion behave in a benevolent manner toward subordinate women. the term “regal leader” instead of “queen bee” is thus a more appropriate characterization of women in top positions of power.sharing reality with an interaction partner is a key element of social connections. one way in which shared reality can be formed in an interpersonal situation is through affiliative social tuning. affliative social tuning occurs when individuals experience a desire to get along with their interaction partner and this affiliative motivation encourages the individual to spontaneously and genuinely align their attitudes and/or behaviors with their interaction partner to achieve a sense of shared reality. in this review, we examine when and how affiliative social tuning of implicit prejudice occurs. we also explore whether individuals garner shared reality by affiliating with ingroup members who seem to hold similar implicit beliefs.previous studies suggest that there are individual differences that affect the way that people fake their responses on personality measures to varying degrees. these factors should be taken into account to obtain more accurate information regarding faking behavior. this study demonstrated an analysis technique that can accommodate individual differences in an experimentally induced faking study. this mixed-design experiment used two randomized groups (honest vs. faking condition), who each completed a five-factor personality measure twice. this study analyzed data using the generalized ancova (g-ancova) as an alternative to the traditional ancova, since the g-ancova can accommodate both individual differences in prior manipulation (covariates) and interaction, estimating the effects of inducement to fake. we also demonstrated the use of effectlite, a program for the univariate and multivariate analysis of unconditional, conditional, and average mean differences between groups, and which supported the present study by providing analysis using g-ancova.how and under what conditions do female and male ceos’ careers differ? the field lacks a clear answer to this question, as extant research has produced mixed findings, many of which also vary across countries. in response, we examine individual- (e.g., personal career success, such as ceo pay) and firm-level (e.g., firm performance) differences in female and male ceos’ careers, and also how these differences vary across countries with different cultural attributes (specifically uncertainty avoidance and gender egalitarianism). to develop our theoretical explanation, we draw on recent scholarship that has used the well-known demand-supply framework from economics to synthesize extant theory on career differences between women and men. then, we test our theoretical model with meta-analytic results based on 158 studies in which differences between female and male ceos, in the firms they lead, and in the outcomes they receive and produce, were examined. our findings reveal that, compared to male ceos, female ceos had more human capital yet led less prestigious firms. likewise, female ceos received less favorable personal career success outcomes, and their firms had worse market-based performance despite similar levels of accounting-based performance. in addition, the country culture variables played important roles in moderating many of the career differences. the results of our research enrich understanding of career differences between female and male ceos and cultural attributes that moderate such differences, suggest the importance of taking into account both demand-side and supply-side perspectives, and offer ample implications for theory, future research, and practice.we present a broad review of all studies having tested for discrimination against minority ethnic groups in the rental housing market by the correspondence testing method. we perform a meta-analysis of correspondence tests from 25 separate studies conducted in oecd countries between 2006 and 2017, containing more than 300 estimates of effects and representing a total of more than 110,000 e-mails sent to private landlords or real-estate agents. in addition to presenting overall results of recent studies, we focus on subgroups of specific correspondence tests in order to highlight the differences in ethnicity, gender, type of landlords, procedure, continent, and type of information provided in applications. we provide evidence that both gender and ethnic discrimination occur in the rental housing market in oecd countries, such that applicants with minority-sounding names and male names are discriminated against (especially arab/muslim applicants). thus, ethnic majority women are the most favored in this market in oecd countries while minority men are the most disadvantaged. moreover, we show the existence of interactions between ethnic and gender discrimination: gender discrimination is greater for minority-sounding names than for majority-sounding names. finally, it seems that real-estate agents discriminate significantly less against minority applicants than private landlords do. this would seem to be at least in part because private landlords display significant statistical discrimination while real-estate agents do not. these results are robust to the estimation methods used (random effects, fixed-effects, and unrestricted weighted least squares methods).in the war for talent, many organizations have started marketing the use of social media as a platform to communicate with and attract talent as part of their e-recruitment strategy. recently, some of those organizations have begun replacing part of the e-recruitment process with social media platforms with video, such as snapchat. technology continues to advance and social media use has largely become an acceptable method for people to communicate, share ideas, and portray themselves both personally and professionally. participants (n = 535) were surveyed regarding whether they would apply to an organization that marketed video-enabled social media as part of their hiring process, as well as their privacy concerns and attitude towards an organizations perceived trendiness. the results indicate that whilst privacy concerns exist, if organizations are only using video-enabled social media as part of their e-recruitment strategy to be perceived as ‘trendy’, then applicants are less likely to apply for the job.the gap between the approval of rti laws and their implementation leaves room for discretionary bias and discrimination from government officials. this paper explores possible discretionary bias and ultimately discriminatory behavior exhibited by uruguayan government agencies while answering rti requests. we explore whether public officials are more likely to respond to requests from citizens that are informed about their right under the rti law vs regular citizens, as well as from influential citizens (journalists and firm owners). we also assess whether public servants' responses to rti requests are gender-biased. we conducted a randomized field experiment to test for unequal treatment given to citizens' requests by uruguayan government officials, considering different citizen categories. we find that only those citizens who know the rti law and invoke its existence have a greater likelihood of obtaining an answer from bureaucrats. this result is driven mostly by men's requests declaring they know the law when making their request, while invoking the law doesn't make a difference in responses to women. these findings show that public campaigns to promote citizens' awareness of rti laws and their use, not only would increase requests, but also governments' responsiveness regarding rti requests.in five studies, we explored how expectations and memory for a target's facial appearance vary as a function of whether that face is said to belong to a transgender or cisgender (i.e., non-transgender) individual. participants in each study were randomly assigned to either a transgender or a cisgender target. in study 1, participants indicated how feminine and masculine they expected the target to look. in study 2, participants were shown an image of the target's face (which was androgynous in all conditions) and asked to rate how feminine and masculine the face appeared. in studies 3, 4, and 5, participants were shown the same image of the target's face and later instructed to identify it from an array of faces. results from these studies revealed that supposedly cisgender targets' faces are expected to look, evaluated, and remembered as more gender congruent than supposedly transgender targets' faces. potential implications of these findings are discussed.rooted in the nigerian manufacturing industry experience, this study, investigates the effect of top management leaders' benevolence on the impact of organisational culture (oc) on employee creativity. structural equation modelling (sem) results indicated that top management leaders' benevolence, and adhocracy oc have positive and significant effects on employee creativity. market and clan oc have significant negative effects on employee creativity, and hierarchy oc has no significant effect on employee creativity. likewise, benevolence has no significant moderating effect on the impact of clan oc on employee creativity, and has a significant negative moderating effect on the impact of adhocracy oc on employee creativity. sem results demonstrate that benevolence has a significant positive moderating effect on the impact of market oc on employee creativity, and a significant negative moderating effect on the impact of hierarchy oc on employee creativity. policy implications and future directions are also discussed.with the growing popularity of mobile devices (m-devices) and technological advancement in wireless networks, a new form of shopping channel has emerged in the tourism industry. mobile tourism shopping refers to the use of m-devices to shop for tourism products and services. given the benefits and potential of this channel, the acceptance however is not widespread and currently an under-addressed topic among academicians. specifically practitioners are also sceptical if consumers are ready to accept this alternative channel. drawing upon the unified theory of acceptance and usage of technology (utaut) as a baseline model, the proposed model was integrated with flow theory, psychological characteristic, social environment and security concern factors to study on the mobile consumers' behavioral intention. through the use of partial least squares-structural equation modelling of 503 mobile respondents, it was discovered that some of the structural paths are not consistent with past literatures. additionally, a non-parametric permutation approach has also been conducted to discover the gender and age differences in the decision making. the findings however are mixed and therefore require further testing. this study has valuable contributions to academicians, practitioners, and society. academically, the integrated framework contributes to the tourism and marketing literatures by uniting utaut, flow theory, psychological characteristic, social environment and security concern factors. practically, by focusing on the important factors affecting consumers’ decision to adopt mobile tourism shopping, organisations can create effective mobile marketing campaigns. socially, the study contributes to job creations and revenue generation for the host country.technological innovations often involve collaboration among firms from diverse industries. existing literature has largely viewed participant diversity as a conduit for non-redundant information or complementary resources, thereby affecting the ex-post outcomes of innovation projects. however, it is seldom examined how projects are initially evaluated during the resource competition stage. in this study, we develop a theory of diversity as a cognitive primer, asking how collaborators from diverse backgrounds may affect external reviewers’ ex-ante evaluation of potential merits of an innovation project. we argue that there are two logics at work in the process of evaluating innovations: the logic of technological advancement and the logic of market value. when an innovation project involves firms from diverse industries, it may be perceived as having a fuzzier market identity, hence making it less appealing to reviewers who hold with the strong market value logic. however, the penalty associated with participant diversity should be less pronounced among reviewers who hold the technological advancement logic. we also expect the relationship between participant diversity and reviewers’ ratings to be moderated by project novelty and fuzziness of technology category. we find support for our hypotheses with a sample of collaborative innovation projects funded by the advanced technology program of the u.s. national institute of standards and technology.asynchronous video interviews (avi) occur when an employment candidate records responses to pre-selected interview questions and an employer reviews them afterwards. this study examined the influence of the review process, the effect of aesthetics, and hard and soft skills on hiring managers’ reviews of avis. the results from 517 observations reveal that the order of the interview (i.e., interview first versus resume first) had an impact on the hiring managers’ decisions. additionally, candidate aesthetics in the avi context were found to play a role (though not primarily) in the decision to advance a candidate to the following stage of the screening process. however, communications and problem-solving skills remained the predominant predictors of advancing a candidate regardless of aesthetics or the procedural order of the review. contributing to an emerging body of research on avis, this study offers suggestions for future inquiry and recommendations for managerial practice.objective
                  similar to women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics disciplines, women in medicine are subject to negative stereotyping when they do not adhere to their sex-role expectations. these biases may vary by specialty, largely dependent on the gender’s representation in that specialty. thus, females in male-dominated surgical specialties are especially at risk of stereotype threat. herein, we present the role of gender expectations using trainee evaluations of physician faculty at a single academic center, over a 5-year period (2010-2014).
               
                  design
                  using graduate medical education evaluation data of physician faculty from medhub, we examined the differences in evaluation scores for male and female physicians within specialties that have traditionally had low female representation (e.g., surgical fields) compared to those with average or high female representation (e.g., pediatrics).
               
                  setting
                  stanford medicine residents and fellows’ medhub ratings of their physician faculty from 2010 to 2014.
               
                  participants
                  a total of 3648 evaluations across 1066 physician faculty.
               
                  results
                  overall, female physicians received lower median scores than their male counterparts across all specialties. when using regression analyses controlling for race, age, rank, and specialty-specific characteristics, the negative effect persists only for female physicians in specialties with low female representation.
               
                  conclusions
                  this finding suggests that female physicians in traditionally male-dominated specialties may face different criteria based on sex-role expectations when being evaluated by trainees. as trainee evaluations play an important role in career advancement decisions, dictate perceptions of quality within academic medical centers and affect overall job satisfaction, we propose that these differences in evaluations based merely on gender stereotypes could account, in part, for the narrowing pipeline of women promoted to higher ranks in academic medicine.many studies demonstrate differences in the coverage of citing publications in google scholar (gs) and web of science (wos). here, we examine to what extent citation data from the two databases reflect the scholarly impact of women and men differently. our conjecture is that wos carries an indirect gender bias in its selection criteria for citation sources that gs avoids due to criteria that are more inclusive. using a sample of 1250 u.s. researchers in sociology, political science, economics, cardiology and chemistry, we examine gender differences in the average citation coverage of the two databases. we also calculate database-specific h-indices for all authors in the sample. in repeated simulations of hiring scenarios, we use these indices to examine whether women's appointment rates increase if hiring decisions rely on data from gs in lieu of wos. we find no systematic gender differences in the citation coverage of the two databases. further, our results indicate marginal to non-existing effects of database selection on women's success-rates in the simulations. in line with the existing literature, we find the citation coverage in wos to be largest in cardiology and chemistry and smallest in political science and sociology. the concordance between author-based h-indices measured by gs and wos is largest for chemistry followed by cardiology, political science, sociology and economics.i investigate firm financial management when the cfo has greater authority by being on the board and the corresponding changes when the cfo position leaves the board. after the 2002 regulatory changes to board composition requirements, determinants of cfo board membership shift from being driven by firm financing needs to being driven by managerial transition and the local supply of outside directors. shareholders react negatively to cfo board departure announcements, especially in the post-sarbanes-oxley period and when the firm is expected to have their cfo on the board. when the cfo is on the board, firms have lower cash holdings, exhibit faster adjustment toward their optimal capital structure following shocks and are less financially constrained. these measures of greater financial flexibility diminish when the cfo position leaves the board, particularly for cash management activities. in sum, board membership is an important cfo characteristic affecting firm financial management decisions.prior literature documents that asymmetric timely recognition of losses versus gains (also known as conditional conservatism) can induce management to make more efficient investment decisions by mitigating information asymmetry between management and investors and providing early signals about the profitability of projects that are undertaken. in this paper, we investigate the impact of conservatism on an important investment decision that has been overlooked, namely, investment in labor. we find that conservatism is negatively associated with labor investment inefficiency; more specifically, conservatism reduces inefficient investment practices on the labor market, including over-hiring, under-firing, under-hiring, and over-firing. our results hold after controlling for managerial ability, corporate governance, and other investments.occupational status benefits of student mobility remain uncertain, despite increasing interest in the implications of international student mobility for the reproduction of societal inequality. since mobile young people are a selective group in terms of socio-economic and achievement-oriented factors, we apply propensity score techniques to test whether german higher education graduates who did or did not study abroad differ in occupational status (based on the socio-economic index of occupational status) three years after graduation. analyses are based on multi-cohort representative data of the german population (working and learning in a changing world). results confirm a positively biased effect of mobility on early career occupational status driven by compositional differences. subgroup analyses show that even when accounting for this bias, occupational status returns to mobility are positive for those graduating in occupationally unspecific fields of study. there are no returns for those graduating in occupationally specific fields of study. findings also suggest that the effect of studying abroad is not homogeneous across the study population. individuals less likely to study abroad are at the same time more likely to reap the occupational benefits from this experience.ethno-racial workplace segregation increases already existing ethno-racial inequality. while previous research has identified discriminatory employers as drivers of workplace segregation, this study addresses the role of the employees. sociological and social psychological theory suggest that people prefer to surround themselves with people who positively confirm their social identity or who contribute with higher group status. through web-based surveys, we measure employee attitudes and preferences concerning ethno-racial workplace diversity, to what extent they differ by ethnicity/race, and if they contain intersectional patterns. thereafter, we use simulation models to analyze the consequences for workplace segregation that these preferences would have, if realized.
                  the main survey results showed that all ethno-racial groups favored their own in-group as colleagues, especially european americans. as a secondary choice, the respondents preferred the out-group with the highest labor market status. intersectional patterns were identified, as minority women were preferred as colleagues over minority men. our simulation model, based on the results of two surveys on stated vs. indirectly revealed preferences, showed that employee preferences were at best not diverse enough to desegregate workplaces. when based on the most common preferences (i.e. excluding a few outliers), the simulations even suggested that these preferences can cause segregation. we relate these findings to schelling's model of segregation.employer use of social networking sites (sns) to screen job candidates is raising concerns about privacy, fairness, and withdrawal intention. since passive candidates are more desirable in the global workforce market, this study proposed a mediation–moderation framework for understanding how and when passive job candidates’ perceptions of privacy violation and procedural injustice interact to predict their intent to withdraw from the selection process in the context of employee use of sns screening. the valid 201 data from taiwan employed users of facebook were analysed using partial least square structural equation modelling (pls-sem). the results indicated that a candidate who can better control his/her sns information is less likely to perceive that his/her privacy has been invaded during sns screening by potential employers, thus mitigating his/her perception of procedural unfairness. moreover, when sns screening is more transparent, the candidate is less likely to perceive the selection procedure as unfair, which will reduce his/her intention to withdraw from employment selection.this paper revisits the relationship between teacher collective bargaining agreements (cbas) and student achievement. using a district-level dataset of california teacher cbas that includes measures of overall and subarea contract strength linked to district-level panel data, we build on prior work by controlling for unobserved fixed and time-varying confounders. this study demonstrates that naïve pooled ols estimates of student achievement on overall cba strength are larger and more negative than lagged achievement and within-district estimates, signifying a negative bias in the naïve levels models. when controlling for time invariant and time-varying unobservables, the relationship between cba strength and student achievement is persistently negative and small, or null, but never significantly positive. this relationship extends to specific cba subareas and to subgroups of students. these findings have important implications for new reforms designed to weaken teacher collective bargaining rights.the “uncanny valley” hypothesis (mori 1970/2005) states that a near-human looking entity can engender negative feelings in an observer. i analyze the phenomenology of the uncanny feeling, which is largely understudied despite being the dependent variable in empirical studies. next, i introduce a social functionalist account to the uncanny valley research. i propose that the uncanny feeling is a social response triggered by the perception that something is ambiguously wrong with the “humanness” of the human-like stimuli, and therefore needs to be avoided. by doing so, the uncanny feeling functions as a “wrong outside, wrong inside” heuristic with central moral connotations. i conclude that rethinking the uncanny feeling as a social response helps to integrate controversial findings within the field.understanding the effects of the service environment on consumption behavior has become an important topic of research in the hospitality literature in recent years. while much of the initial research in this stream has focused on the effects of the physical aspects of the consumption space (e.g., décor, layout, lighting, etc.), a number of more recent studies have proposed that, like these physical factors, social phenomena may exert a significant effect on consumer behavior. the purpose of this research is to test these propositions. defined as the social servicescape, social aspects of the consumption environment including customer/employee behavior, appearance, and perceived similarity, are hypothesized to exert a meaningful effect on evaluations of the full-service dining experience. the results support the proposed framework, demonstrating the social servicescape as a robust predictor of attitude, satisfaction, and post-consumption behavioral intentions, including return intention and word of mouth.given concerns over cfo pay, especially incentives, and considering the tension between a cfo’s fiduciary responsibility and being a key member of the firm’s executive team, we examine the determinants and effects of cfo compensation amount, incentive intensity, and proximity to ceo compensation in a sample of european companies (fte 500, 2005–2009). first, we focus on the cfo role as a determinant of cfo compensation. like prior work, we proxy for cfo roles by using hand-collected public data on education and past professional experience, but we supplement these proxies with proprietary data to more directly capture the firm-specific nature of the cfo job in term of its similarity with that of the ceo. we thus argue how cfos can have varied roles characterized by different levels of financial expertise and ceo-likeness, and document that it is this latter aspect that is associated with cfo compensation. second, we study the effects of cfo compensation design on outcomes in the cfo’s realm related to financial reporting. we find that cfo financial expertise is positively associated with financial reporting quality, while a cfo’s pay long-term incentive intensity and a cfo’s incentive compensation proximity with the ceo are negatively associated with financial reporting quality. overall, then, our results suggest that cfos get rewarded for their ceo-likeness, and particularly for their being similar to the ceo in terms of tasks and decision making authority. but it is their financial expertise that is positively related to financial reporting quality. at the same time, using compensation that is more incentive intensive and more similar to that of the ceo appears to be potentially detrimental to the quality of financial reporting. these results are relevant for boards involved in selecting highly expert cfos, and their compensation committees charged with defining subsequently effective incentive compensation plans for those cfos.given strong human desires to be respected and understood, we demonstrate a surprising tendency: individuals consistently conceal relatively high status identities (sacrificing status and authenticity) to preserve social harmony. we experimentally demonstrated that, contrary to third-party observers’ expectations (study 1), individuals were more likely to conceal relatively high status identities, compared to similar status identities, from their peers (studies 1–5). concealment was an effort to mitigate interpersonal threats (to the self, others, and belonging; study 3) and continued even when individuals could not be held responsible for disclosure (study 4). we found modest evidence that relative status still impacted concealment in settings encouraging status hierarchy (study 5). thus, individuals have a persistent discomfort with elevating their status above others. we conclude by considering the promising implications of identifying conditions that encourage high status individuals to prioritize social harmony, as well as caveats regarding how identity concealment may inadvertently reinforce inequality.we extend the entrepreneurship literature to include positive psychological capital — an individual or organization's level of psychological resources consisting of hope, optimism, resilience, and confidence — as a salient signal in crowdfunding. we draw from the costless signaling literature to argue that positive psychological capital language usage enhances crowdfunding performance. we examine 1726 crowdfunding campaigns from kickstarter, finding that entrepreneurs conveying positive psychological capital experience superior fundraising performance. human capital moderates this relationship while social capital does not, suggesting that costly signals may, at times, enhance the influence of costless signals. post hoc analyses suggest findings generalize across crowdfunding types, but not to ipos.in their efforts to affect regulations, firms have developed specific strategies to exploit scientific uncertainty. they have manufactured doubt by hiring and funding dissenting scientists, by producing and publicizing favorable scientific findings and by generally concealing their involvement in biased research. we propose a new model to study the interplay between scientific uncertainty, firms' miscommunication and public policies. the government is benevolent but populist, and maximizes social welfare as perceived by citizens. the industry can produce costly reports showing that its activity is not harmful. citizens are unaware of the industry's miscommunication. we first characterize the industry's optimal miscommunication policy. the industry notably ceases miscommunicating abruptly when scientists' belief reaches a critical threshold. we identify a natural condition under which miscommunication is stronger under a tax on emissions than under command and control. we then analyze research funding. a populist government may support research to enable firms to falsely reassure citizens. establishing an independent research agency helps limit the welfare losses induced by populist policies.the response bias hypothesis specifies that the predictive capacity of a predictor should be enhanced by controlling for the effects of bias on the predictor variable, in particular, socially desirable responding (sdr) bias. to-date, the vast majority of the sdr research in the area, which is principally personality related, has failed to support the response bias hypothesis, as sdr suppressor effects have not been observed. consequently, it has been contended that sdr is not a problem for self-report measurement, that sdr measures may themselves be indicators of trait variance, and that it was likely impossible to determine whether an elevated sdr score reflected a trait or response bias. however, in contrast to personality, intelligence is an area within which comparisons between subjective scores (self-reported) and objective scores (task-based) can be made. consequently, the purpose of this investigation was to test the response bias hypothesis (n = 253) with self-report measures of intellectual and emotional intelligence (sriq and srei) and task-based measures of intellectual and emotional intelligence (tbiq and tbei), in conjunction with a multi-dimensional measure of sdr (balanced inventory of desirable responding; bidr). the percentage of variance accounted for in tbiq by sriq, and in tbei by srei, increased by 1% and 2.1%, respectively, when sdr was included in the model. the 1% to 2.1% increases in criterion (concurrent) validity were interpreted as practically significant, based on previously published simulation work. finally, it was concluded that self-report measures may be non-negligibly influenced by individual differences in sdr, and that the bidr may possess some validity as an indicator of individual differences in socially desirable responding.we propose a “ratings pattern heuristic” in judgments of expertise—that is, people’s tendency to undervalue critics who assign the same rating to multiple options, overlooking diagnostic information which would clearly justify the uniform ratings. the heuristic is driven by a strong association between discrimination and expertise and a focus on summary ratings. people “punish” uniform (vs. varied) raters even when (a) uniform ratings are acknowledgedly more likely (studies 1a and 1b), (b) the uniform rater’s past performance is superior (studies 2 and 3), and (c) the uniform rater also reports varied sub-ratings (study 4a), unless participants are prompted to assess the sub-ratings prior to choosing a critic (studies 4b and 5). study 6 reveals that critics are less aware than judges of the impact of the pattern of their ratings on others’ perceptions.this research explores the topics of perceived brand globalness (pbg) and perceived brand localness (pbl) in the b2b context—specifically in terms of how brand localness and globalness factor into b2b buyers' decision making. it does so by examining co-branding relationships that involve alliances between well-known global and local b2b brands with unknown b2b brands in order to tease out the specific influence of brand globalness and localness on buyers' quality evaluations of the unknown brand. in other words, it considers the potential spillover effects of well-known pbg and pbl ally brands on lesser-known focal brands in brand alliances. notably, we analyze data collected from a sample of brazilian and u.s. based purchase decision-makers and uncover a number of robust findings likely to benefit both academics and practitioners.do gays earn less than other men because they are less competitive? do lesbians earn more than other women because they are more competitive? to answer these questions, we conduct an experiment on a dutch online survey panel to measure the competitive preferences of gay, lesbian and straight panel members. we find that gay men compete less than straight men, while lesbians compete as much as straight women. linking our experimental measure of competitiveness to earnings and education data, we find that competitiveness predicts earnings and education levels and that differences in competitive preferences can partially explain the gay earnings penalty but not the lesbian premium.referrals and information flow distort market mechanisms of hiring in the labor market, but they might assist employers under asymmetric information in finding better alternatives. this paper investigates whether an impartial information flow between employers in a cyclic network structure could generate more discrimination than when no information is exchanged between employers. we set up an artificial labor market in which there was no average quality difference between two categories of workers. we asked participants to play the role of employers and examined the partiality of their hiring choices. results showed that discrimination was prevalent in all conditions. higher standards by the employers for the quality of workers increased discrimination as did the presence of referrals from workers. unexpectedly, impartial information flow in a cyclic network of employers did not help to decrease discrimination. we also showed that these mechanisms interact with and subdue each other in complex ways.we use signaling theory to explain how new ventures effectively signal future prospects to acquire external resources. based on a sample of 235 new ventures drawn from a unique dataset combining multiple sources, we examine the signals of founders' human capital (i.e., education, industry experience, and founding experience) and investor prominence and their influence on the amount of external funding received across two stages of venture funding. we find that founders' founding experience and education have the greatest effects for acquiring first-round financing, but in later stages, only the signaling effect from education remains. furthermore, we find important interactions between founders' human capital and investor prominence in the second round of funding. by utilizing lagged funding information, we show that different types of signals have a dynamic and temporal impact on new ventures' resource acquisition, including the persistence of some signals and the temporariness of others.the current study investigated job applicant faking ability on facebook, including an examination of various individual differences and strategies predictive of faking success. using an experimental design, results indicated that individuals are able to manipulate facebook profiles in order to convey a certain image. individual difference predictors of faking ability included age, daily facebook usage, cognitive ability, facebook impression motivation, self-monitoring ability and sensitivity, and neuroticism. individuals used slightly different modification strategies across conditions, and interestingly, the most effective strategy, removing statuses, was a significant predictor of faking ability in only the “fake good” condition, which is consistent with research on negative salience effects. profile suitability ratings provided by three independent raters demonstrated high inter-rater reliability, but low inter-rater agreement. of the examined facebook profile components, wall posts and likes emerged as significant predictors of overall suitability ratings. thus, these findings highlight potential concerns regarding the use of social networking sites as applicant evaluation tools in organizational contexts. future research directions are suggested.la littérature scientifique a mis en évidence les effets des stéréotypes de beauté, de sexe et des normes sur le recrutement. à partir des évolutions du modèle d’absence de correspondance (lack of fit model, heilman, 1983) et des résultats de recherches récentes (desrumaux, 2005 ; jawahar et mattson, 2005), l’objectif de cette étude était de mesurer les effets de l’apparence physique, des aptitudes et de l’internalité/externalité des candidats sur les jugements de recrutabilité. l’étude a également pris en compte le niveau hiérarchique et la connotation sexuelle des postes à pourvoir dans le secteur médical qui étaient de niveau supérieur (chirurgien vs. médecin nutritionniste) ou subalterne (ambulancier vs. assistante dentaire). les résultats indiquent qu’un candidat attrayant est jugé plus recrutable pour un poste subalterne que supérieur, et cet effet est plus important pour une cible masculine que pour une cible féminine lorsqu’il s’agit d’un poste subalterne alors qu’il n’y a pas de différence pour un poste supérieur. des résultats complémentaires ont également montré que les hommes sont jugés moins recrutables que les femmes pour des postes à connotation féminine et que les aptitudes sont plus discriminantes dans le recrutement des candidats externes plutôt qu’internes. les résultats sont discutés à partir des travaux antérieurs qui ont souligné une évolution du modèle d’absence de correspondance.
               
                  scientific research has shown the influence of norms and of gender and beauty stereotypes on evaluations and hiring decisions. recent studies (desrumaux, 2005; jawahar & mattson, 2005) have shown an evolution of the lack of fit model (heilman, 1983). the objective of this research is to test the effects of physical appearance, gma and normative pieces of information (internality/externality) related to the candidate on the candidates’ recrutabilty. this study has also taken into account hierarchy level and sexual connotation of the job. we have tested its effects on medical jobs, of higher level (surgeon, doctor nutritionist) or subordinate (ambulance man and dental assistant). the results indicate that an attractive candidate is judged more recrutable for a subordinate job than a superior one. moreover, for a subordinate job, the effect of the attractiveness was more important for male target than for feminine target. results show also that men are judged less hirable than the women for female type jobs. moreover, the effect of the aptitude is more discriminating for the external ones than for the internals. results were discussed on the line of the lack of fit correspondence model.publications in leading journals are widely known to have a positive impact on economists’ judgments of the value of authors’ contributions and professional reputations. while conjectures that publications in lower-rated journals likely have a negative impact on such judgments are common, there have been virtually no direct tests of their validity. our intent is to provide results from such a test, one that involved asking economists from 44 universities throughout the world to rate either a publication list with only higher-rated journals or a list with all of these but with additional publications in lower-rated journals. our primary finding was that, holding other things constant, adding publications in lower-rated journals to what is typically considered a good publication record does have a significant negative impact on economists’ judgments of the value of the author’s contribution. most implications of this bias suggest negative impacts on social welfare.instead of treating the spillover process as a black box, this paper conducts a qualitative study of foreign knowledge spillovers by returnee managers at chinese firms. unlike mainstream spillover studies which adopt economics approaches, this paper uses an institutional theory perspective and regards returnee managers as boundary spanners. results show that returnee managers' boundary-spanning activities in the form of social interaction, including building relationships with colleagues and transforming their identities from outsiders to insiders, help gain legitimacy for their new roles. their boundary-spanning activities in the form of grafting foreign knowledge, including understanding existing knowledge resources, introducing foreign knowledge to colleagues, and integrating foreign knowledge with domestic firms, help gain legitimacy for foreign knowledge. foreign knowledge' contributions in new product development at product, process, and cultural perspective levels reinforce its institutionalization at domestic firms. absorptive barriers include domestic firms' administrative heritage and returnee managers' arduous relationship with others.evidence suggests that individuals can and do present themselves positively on personality assessments when motivated to do so. this faking can reduce the validity of personality assessments and is of special concern in high stakes situations where critical decisions are being made at least partially on personality scores (e.g., personnel selection). in the current study, we take a multisaturation perspective of faking, and examine how psychopathy might be related to faking on normal range personality traits measured using single-stimulus or forced-choice personality assessments in a simulated selection context. to examine whether warnings interacted with psychopathy in predicting faking behavior, we included a warning condition. findings suggest that faking on the single-stimulus personality assessment was more affected by elevated psychopathy such that those higher in psychopathy were more likely to fake than those lower in psychopathy, however psychopathy was also associated with faking behavior on the forced choice measure. this may result in an unintentional bias toward selecting employees with higher psychopathy when evaluating candidates with normal range personality assessments. warning condition did not play a significant role either as a main effect or in interaction with psychopathy.it is widely believed that female and male leaders have fundamentally different characteristics and styles, which are thought to explain why organizations with more gender-diverse top management teams perform somewhat better. unfortunately, few studies have concretely specified such differences or examined whether men and women in leadership roles, particularly executives, indeed differ on core psychological characteristics such as personality traits. drawing on three alternative perspectives on the roles of personality and gender in leadership ascendancy, this study (a) examined whether men and women are more similar among executives than among non-executive employees, and (b) tested whether similar traits distinguish executives from lower-level employees across genders. data were from a large (n = 577) sample of european executives (434 male, 143 female) and 52,139 non-executive employees (34,496 male, 17,643 female) who completed high-stakes personality assessments. results generally supported a gender-similarities perspective. gender differences on leadership emergence-relevant traits (i.e., conscientiousness, emotional stability, extraversion) were smaller among executives compared to non-executives. further, similar traits distinguished executives from non-executives across genders. both male and female executives tend to demonstrate an archetypical “leader personality” focused on assertiveness, high-level strategic thinking, and decisiveness. however, results also showed that hierarchical level differences in personality were much more strongly pronounced among women than men. implications for gender equity in organizational leadership are discussed.ex-offenders comprise a significant percentage of the labor force but frequently face stigmatization at work. previous research on the ex-offender stigma has focused almost exclusively on its deleterious implications during the selection process. we seek to provide insight by adopting a cross-disciplinary approach and drawing from theoretical foundations in social psychology to present a model of the process and outcomes of the stigmatization of ex-offenders in organizations. in doing so, we outline the relationships between stigmatization, labeling, stereotyping, and treatment discrimination in the employee-observer relationship, to suggest how stigma leads to employee outcomes such as reduced performance and satisfaction as well as higher turnover. further, we offer critical boundary conditions along each step of the process and discuss strategies that ex-offenders can use to manage their stigma as well as organizational practices that may help employers and managers avoid negative outcomes for ex-offender employees.recent years have witnessed an increase in the number of individuals who leave their nation of origin and immigrate to live in other nations. the acculturation literature has noted several issues immigrants face in their host nation. amongst these, establishing a career is of considerable importance. however, existing career theories have been criticized for their failure to identify the antecedents and explain the mechanism which underlies immigrants' career decision making. importantly, these theories ignore the role of social identity in this process. to this end, this paper develops an identity-centric framework to explain the manner in which immigrants' social identity influences their career decisions and provides an understanding of the psychological, sociological and cognitive mechanism that underlies this process.we examine both the private benefits and spillover costs of labor market favoritism in a unique laboratory experiment design. our data show that both employment preference and wage offers favor in-group members. workers positively reciprocate towards in-group employers by choosing higher effort in a gift-exchange game. thus, favoritism can be privately rational for employers. however, unemployed subjects are allowed to burn resources (at a cost to themselves), and we document significantly increased resource destruction when unemployment can be attributed to favoritism towards others. this highlights a significant spillover and often ignored cost of favoritism, and it points to one possible micro-foundation of some antisocial behavior.many areas of social psychological research investigate how social information may bias judgment. however, most measures of social judgment biases are (1) low in reliability because they use a single response, (2) not indicative of individual differences in bias because they use between-subjects designs, (3) inflexible because they are designed for a particular domain, and (4) ambiguous about magnitude of bias because there is no objectively correct answer. we developed a measure of social judgment bias, the judgment bias task, in which participants judge profiles varying in quality for a certain outcome based on objective criteria. the presence of ostensibly irrelevant social information provides opportunity to assess the extent to which social biases undermine the use of objective criteria in judgment. the jbt facilitates measurement of social judgment biases by (1) using multiple responses, (2) indicating individual differences by using within-subject designs, (3) being adaptable for assessing a variety of judgments, (4) identifying an objective magnitude of bias, and (5) taking 6 min to complete on average. in nine pre-registered studies (n > 9000) we use the jbt to reveal two prominent social judgment biases: favoritism towards more physically attractive people and towards members of one's ingroup. we observe that the jbt can reveal social biases, and that these sometimes occur even when the participant did not intend or believe they showed biased judgment. a flexible, objective, efficient assessment of social judgment biases will accelerate theoretical and empirical progress.purpose
                  a lack of diversity has been observed in radiation oncology (ro), with women and certain racial/ethnic groups underrepresented as trainees, faculty, and practicing physicians. we sought to gain a nuanced understanding of how to best promote diversity, equity, and inclusion (dei) based on the insights of ro department chairs, with particular attention given to the experiences of the few women and underrepresented minorities (urms) in these influential positions.
               
                  methods and materials
                  from march to june 2016, we conducted telephone interviews with 24 ro department chairs (of 27 invited). purposive sampling was used to invite all chairs who were women (n = 13) or urms (n = 3) and 11 male chairs who were not urms. multiple analysts coded the verbatim transcripts.
               
                  results
                  five themes were identified: (1) commitment to dei promotes quality health care and innovation; (2) gaps remain despite some progress with promoting diversity in ro; (3) women and urm faculty continue to experience challenges in various career domains; (4) solutions to dei issues would be facilitated by acknowledging realities of gender and race; and (5) expansion of the career pipeline is needed.
               
                  conclusions
                  the chairs' insights had policy-relevant implications. bias training should broach tokenism, blindness, and intersectionality. efforts to recruit and support diverse talent should be deliberate and proactive. bridge programs could engage students before their application to medical school.remanufacturing is a key activity to reach a closed loop supply chain and is effective only if consumers understand what a remanufactured product is and why it is important for the environment. from the perspective of signaling theory, this study investigates factors that are important to leverage remanufactured sales, brand equity and price, using an experimental design. it also uses structural equation modeling to analyze the importance of consumers’ environmental consciousness in their intentions to purchase remanufactured products. the study concludes that brand equity is an important factor to leverage remanufactured sales, but it is intrinsically associated with price setting. consumer environmental consciousness has no impact on remanufactured sales, highlighting the importance of the economic side to consumer purchasing decisions.the paper investigates the extent to which emotional intelligence has an impact on decision making mainly with regard to financial decisions and their outcomes. its relevance lies in the fact that despite the remarkable evolution of the literature related to the determinants of financial choices, it is not comprehensively apprehended what really guides managers’ decisions.
                  the study offers a wide support for behavioral finance and demonstrates a paradigmatic shift in exploring financial decisions. the paradigmatic evolution of financial theory has yield to an “invisible” part of the reality which in turn generates some “hidden” costs. at this level, the behavioral financial paradigm becomes relevant to shed some light on the real dynamic of financial decisions. an empirical study based on a survey on 50 tunisian firms confirms the “partial” influence of emotional intelligence on financial decisions and the detection of a potential to be upgraded. results show that managers who rely on their emotional intelligence can successfully, on one hand, improve firm’s funding opportunities, and on the other hand avoid overreaching the debt target ratio in such a way to maintain the financial stability of their firms.
                  the study offers insights at two levels: first, educators are urged to integrate emotional intelligence competencies in their teaching objectives. second, human resource management professionals are invited to reconsider hiring techniques and training methods favorably to detect and develop an emotional intelligence capital.background
                  social discrimination, a type of psychological stressor, is associated with poorer physical and mental health outcomes, yet we have little understanding of how discrimination affects neural functions in marginalized populations. by contrast, the effects of psychological stress on neural functions are well documented, with evidence of significant effects on the amygdala—a neural region that is central to psychosocial functions. accordingly, we conducted an examination of the relation between self-reported discrimination exposure and amygdala activity in a diverse sample of adults.
               
                  methods
                  seventy-four adults (43% women; 72% african american; 23% hispanic; 32% homosexual/bisexual) completed self-report ratings of discrimination exposure. spontaneous amygdala activity and functional connectivity were assessed during resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging.
               
                  results
                  greater discrimination exposure was associated with higher levels of spontaneous amygdala activity. increases in discrimination were also associated with stronger functional connectivity between the amygdala and several neural regions (e.g., anterior insula, putamen, caudate, anterior cingulate, medial frontal gyrus), with the most robust effects observed in the thalamus. these effects were independent of several demographic (e.g., race, ethnicity, sex) and psychological (e.g., current stress, depression, anxiety) factors.
               
                  conclusions
                  collectively, our findings provide the first evidence that social discrimination is independently associated with elevations in intrinsic amygdala activity and functional connectivity, thus revealing clear parallels between the neural substrates of discrimination and psychological stressors of other origins. such results should spur future investigations of amygdala-based networks as potential etiological factors linking discrimination exposure to adverse physical and mental health outcomes.background
                  in 2009, mexican federal government enacted “narcomenudeo” reforms decriminalizing possession of small amounts of drugs, delegating prosecution of retail drug sales to the state courts, and mandating treatment diversion for habitual drug users. there has been insufficient effort to formally assess the decriminalization policy’s population-level impact, despite mounting interest in analagous reforms across the globe.
               
                  methods
                  using a dataset of municipal police incident reports, we examined patterns of drug possession, and violent and non-violent crime arrests between january 2009 and december 2014. a hierarchical panel data analysis with random effects was conducted to assess the impact of narcomenudeo’s drug decriminalization provision.
               
                  results
                  the reforms had no significant impact on the number of drug possession or violent crime arrests, after controlling for other variables (e.g. time trends, electoral cycles, and precinct-level socioeconomic factors). time periods directly preceding local elections were observed to be statistically associated with elevated arrest volume.
               
                  conclusions
                  analysis of police statistics parallel prior findings that mexico’s reform decriminalizing small amounts of drugs does not appear to have significantly shifted drug law enforcement in tijuana. more research is required to fully understand the policy transformation process for drug decriminalization and other structural interventions in mexico and similar regional and international efforts. observed relationship between policing and political cycles echo associations in other settings whereby law-and-order activities increase during mayoral electoral campaigns.this research aims to understand whether there is any difference in interview opportunities within the taiwan hospitality industry due to physical attractiveness. the resume audit method was utilized to design fictitious resumes, and then they were sent to numerous job openings. the status of callbacks for interviews was observed, and the results showed that the attractiveness of job candidates is an important factor affecting the rate of interview callback in the taiwan hospitality industry. for male candidates the “appearance effect” is particularly significant, though it is not as noteworthy for female candidates. also, different types of job openings vary in the degree to which good looks affect a callback: the most important appearance effect exists for front desk receptionists; the second is for food servers at restaurants within a hotel. for other types of job openings such as housekeeping attendants, kitchen staff, and management trainees, there is no appearance effect.uncertainty experienced by market audiences is the fundamental premise for status to take effect. whereas prior research usually assumes that uncertainty is evenly distributed among audiences, this study emphasizes the heterogeneity of audiences. audiences usually differ in the scope of firms they cover. they acquire more information and confront less uncertainty when evaluating firms under their coverage than those not. status may thus exert different effects across audiences. my theoretical development is situated in the context of m&a. in particular, i hypothesize that although an acquirer's status is generally beneficial, it is more appealing to investors who do not cover the acquirer, as compared to covering investors. results of the empirical analysis on the u.s. deals between 1990 and 2014 provide considerable support for my framework.compared with conventional products, sustainable products continue to attract relatively lower market shares. to increase customer acceptance, many sustainable products feature third-party certification labels (tpcl), yet it is unclear whether tpcl are effective and what processes and boundary conditions define their role in consumer decision making. across three experimental studies, this research determines that sustainable products are characterized by credence qualities, associated with increased perceptions of risk, which negatively influence consumers' purchase intentions. drawing on signaling theory, this study also shows that tpcl on sustainable products provide brand-like information cues that reduce the perceived risk of sustainable products. finally, a third experimental study demonstrates that consumers must perceive tpcl as credible for them to reduce consumers’ risk perceptions.for over 30 years, researchers have examined social influence using status characteristics theory (berger and conner, 1974). while research has investigated beauty and attractiveness as status characteristics (e.g., webster and driskell, 1983), there is a dearth of research that examines whether obesity has status value using status characteristics theory. the current paper reviews the literature on, demonstrating how they are related to status characteristics. next, this paper demonstrates how the effects of both gender and obesity can be explained by considering them as status characteristics, which have the potential to create subsequent status beliefs and stigma. finally, this study reports empirical findings that support obesity as a status characteristic. we find an effect for obesity on ratings of diffuse status, and effects for both obesity and gender on ratings of influence.with increased attention paid to the lack of diversity in u.s. technology firms, little attention is paid to women already in the technology workforce who aspire to senior leadership roles. this research study focused on understanding the experiences of african american/black, asian american, european american/white, and hispanic american/latina women who advanced from technical/operational it roles to senior it executive (site) roles in corporate america. previous research solely focused on gender, race, or ethnicity provided an insufficient and limited description of women's advancement journey. rather than treat gender and race/ethnicity as mutually exclusive categories of experience and analysis, this study approached the topic from a gender intersectionality perspective and used the individual differences theory of gender and it as an analytical lens. specifically, the study examined women's career progression in a more nuanced manner—observing gender within race or ethnic group—which provided greater insight into the participants' advancement journey.
                  the intent of this study was to understand how individual and organizational factors influenced each participant's career progression and what role, if any, gender and race/ethnicity played in the journey.
                  as a result of the analysis, six themes emerged: pathways to the site role; informal networks; bias; credibility and legitimacy; support; and technical skills. issues of gender and race/ethnicity permeated most of the factors and influenced whether the factors helped or hindered.
                  although some findings support existing research on women's career barriers, the intent was not to generalize the findings to all women. rather, the study's results demonstrate that racial and ethnic variations among the women in addition to a variety of other factors contribute to different career progression experiences.built on expectancy violation theory, this study investigated how individuals respond to face-threatening information (fti) on facebook. we compared how external contingencies of self-worth (csw; staking self-worth on others’ evaluations) influenced negative affect and remediation between publicly and privately exchanged fti. participants were exposed to two putative pieces of fti concerning their academic performance and morality from an acquaintance provided either publicly or privately. results (n = 204) show that external csw only predicted negative affect in the public condition, and negative affect mediated the impact of external csw on remediation only when fti concerning morality was public. our findings suggest that impression management online is a function of self-esteem, the subject, and publicness of fti.despite its significant influence on the actual enforcement of the law, the economic cost of court discretion has generally been ignored in the literature on employment protection. this paper exploits a distinctive feature of the japanese judicial system, periodic judge transfers, to identify court discretion. because judges move across local labor markets, while a single national court system ensures that there are no legal boundaries between regions, it is possible to remove any confounding relationships between current litigation outcomes and local labor markets. a key finding is that an increase in the worker victory ratio in adjustment dismissal litigations reduces the rates of both job creation and destruction. ignoring the uncertainty inherent in court decisions would lead to misspecification of the actual cost of employment protection, especially in countries with high judicial activism.background and objectives
                  correlational research shows that belief in a continuum of psychiatric problems predicts decreased public stigma. however, the correlational findings fail to inform the stigma reduction prospects of manipulating continuum beliefs. all extant experimental work has been executed online. this study examined effects of a laboratory-based continuum intervention on behavioral and self-report measures of psychiatric stigma.
               
                  methods
                  sixty-nine undergraduates believed that they would meet a man with schizophrenia. they then read a bogus scientific article that attested to a categorical view of schizophrenia, a continuum view, or that merely described schizophrenia. some participants then completed a task that required reflection on their differences from (categorical group) or similarities to (continuum group) the man with schizophrenia. participants eventually moved to an adjacent room and sat in one of several seats that varied in their proximity to a seat ostensibly occupied by the man with schizophrenia.
               
                  results
                  the continuum intervention decreased self-reported social distance and the categorical intervention increased endorsement of damaging stereotypes. seat selection was unaffected by our manipulation, but we obtained evidence of significant links to validated stigma measures.
               
                  limitations
                  our sample was small, and our behavioral stigma measure could be modified to maximize variability in participants' seat selection.
               
                  conclusions
                  the study offers modest support of the stigma reduction effect of continuum belief intervention. it offers new evidence of the pernicious consequences of interventions that inflate perceptions of the “otherness” of individuals with psychiatric problems. finally, it shines new light on stigma-related behavior measurable in the laboratory.background
                  the selection of high-quality applicants is critical to the future of surgery. however, it is unclear if current practices meet industry criteria of a successful selection system, as measured by administrative efficiency and performance and attrition of those selected.
               
                  methods
                  we performed a modified systematic review process to gain an understanding of current selection processes, remediation practices, and attrition rates in surgery residency training programs in the united states. we also conducted semistructured interviews with local residency program directors and coordinators to obtain a specific snapshot of the amount of time and resources dedicated to these activities in various sized programs. the associated financial costs of these activities are also presented.
               
                  results
                  the administrative costs for current residency selection processes are substantial, ranging from $45,000 to $148,000 for each program per year. approximately 30% of residents require at least 1 remediation intervention, costing programs $3400 to $5300 per episode, and typically involve concerns around nontechnical skills. attrition rates range from 20% to 40%.
               
                  conclusions
                  this review suggests that additional methodologies may allow surgery residency programs to identify best-fit candidates more efficiently and effectively, while also decreasing remediation and attrition rates. possible solutions include incorporation of structured interviews, personality inventories, and situational judgment tests. resources dedicated to current interview practices, remediation efforts, and attrition management can be redirected to support these methodologies. by applying the science of selection and assessment to the recruitment process, programs may be able to make more data-driven decisions to identify candidates who will be successful at their institution.family firm human resource (hr) research focuses largely on examining differences in hr practices between family and nonfamily firms or between family and nonfamily employees within family firms. few studies, however, attempt to explain why these differences emerge. we offer insight into the source of heterogeneous hr practices by investigating attributes of the owning family. we integrate a primary family science perspective, circumplex theory, to describe how an unbalanced family structure leads to unbalanced hr systems in the family firm. an unbalanced hr system is depicted as a form of bifurcation bias, or the asymmetric treatment of family and nonfamily employees via the family firm's hr practices. by integrating and extending circumplex theory into the family firm, insight is offered into how the structure of the family system influences the structure of the family business hr system, thus impacting firm outcomes. implications for both scholars and practitioners are offered.more than a decade ago, scholars formally conceptualized the potential synergy between leadership and entrepreneurship scholarship. our work highlights research accomplishments occurring at the interface of these two intellectual areas as well as identifying untapped possibilities for continued research. we highlight how recent efforts have witnessed a mutual exchange of ideas that present opportunities benefiting both fields. drawing from four key domains of entrepreneurship previously proposed to mutually inform future leadership research efforts, we make suggestions for integrating entrepreneurial opportunities, the roles of individual and entrepreneurial teams, the modes of organizing entrepreneurial ventures, and differing entrepreneurial environments with key trends important to leadership research, such as servant leadership and leader-member exchange theory. overall, our work provides an assessment of the state of the art surrounding the coalescence of leadership and entrepreneurship research and sets an agenda for the next decade of research at this intersection.to better understand the documented racial inequality in access to high status positions within the american labor market, this study investigates racial differences in job-level career patterns within the college football coaching profession. using data on the career histories of 319 college football coaches from the 2009 season, this study examines whether black and white coaches have different job-level mobility patterns throughout their careers using optimal matching sequence analysis. descriptive results identify five common career trajectories within the college football coaching profession that are distinguished by their relative levels of job mobility and stagnation, and the amount of time spent at the lower college and high school levels of competition before reaching the highest level of college football. subsequent analyses indicate that white coaches are more likely to follow upward career trajectories while black coaches are more likely to get stuck in careers characterized by low-level positions. these racial differences are due, in part, to coaches’ experience as football athletes (i.e. position played). however, even given the same pre-career experience, racial differences emerge in the likelihood of traversing mobile or stagnant career pathways. the results point to particularistic processes operating to perpetuate racial inequality within the college football coaching profession similar to those that have been shown to operate in other high-status labor market contexts.the use of external knowledge for innovation (i.e., inbound or outside-in open innovation) has received substantial attention in the innovation literature. however, the “human side” of open innovation is still poorly understood. we consider the role of employee characteristics with respect to predicting firm-level openness. drawing on the human capital, learning and creativity literatures, we theorize that knowledge diversity of the firm’s employees is positively associated with employees’ ability to identify and absorb external knowledge, which aggregates to increased firm-level openness—that is, firms’ use of external knowledge in their pursuit of innovation. based on a combination of three data sources, namely, two survey data sources and register data, we find support for our hypothesis that employees’ educational diversity is positively associated with firm-level openness. however, we find no direct association between employees’ work history diversity and firm-level openness but rather—as also hypothesized—a conditional relationship based on educational background, which implies that diverse work history only has a positive impact at higher levels of educational diversity. to reduce endogeneity concerns, we undertake a series of robustness checks.we examine a counterintuitive effect of motherhood and parental leave policies: supervisors and coworkers may view early career women who have yet to have children (i.e., childless women) with greater uncertainty and inconvenience than their counterparts (i.e., childless men), especially in organizations offering more maternal than paternal leave. we propose that these “maybe baby” expectations manifest as workplace incivility, which predicts later career withdrawal. in a time-lagged survey study, we examined 474 early career employees' experiences of workplace incivility and career withdrawal cognitions one year later; we also collected objective data on organizations' maternal and paternal leave policies. as expected, childless women experienced more incivility than their counterparts, a difference that was greater in organizations with larger differences between maternal leave and paternal leave policies and positively associated with subsequent career withdrawal. discussion focuses on the importance of examining individual- and organizational-level work-family antecedents for understanding modern workplace mistreatment and its career effects in context, as well as the effective design and implementation of work-family policies.this paper examines the ‘rule of law’ and ‘justice’ implications of using online dispute resolution (odr) platforms as technology-mediated interfaces for small claim dispute resolution in construction projects. data is obtained from a questionnaire survey of construction stakeholders, administered using direct non-random sampling of professional contacts with the authors. data is analysed using sas 9.4 (sas institute, cary, nc) on a windows 7 platform. surprisingly, study findings do not suggest any ‘rule of law’ and ‘justice’ implications for small claim odr. tentatively, this conclusion supports wider use of odr. the originality of the study is that although there is considerable academic and practitioner interest in various alternative forms of dispute resolution (adr), both practitioner use and academic study of odr remain sparse. thus, this study serves as a foundation for further empirical exploration of odr as a nascent component of adr.impression management (im) is important for effective leadership. followers accept influence from individuals who meet their perceptions of what it means to be a leader, and im is an important way of impacting those perceptions. yet, the extant literature on leader im is fragmented. we unify the literature in this area by creating a multi-dimensional typology and multi-level model of im in leadership. we examine the multi-dimensional nature of im as a construct composed of information processing, communicative, and goal-directed components, thereby creating eight im archetypes. then, we examine how im can be used to impact follower perceptions of the leader through the lenses of transformational/charismatic, authentic, and leader categorization theories. this research unites a currently fragmented area of research and sparks new questions about how leader behaviors can be used to influence followers toward multi-level leadership outcomes.social media have caused information overload for users who normally have limited information processing capability, thus making the issue of task-information fit become critical. the elaboration likelihood model (elm) provides a theoretical underpinning for understanding the informational influence processes underlying the effectiveness of dual-route persuasion and attitude change. drawing on the elm, the current study explores the effectiveness of dual-route persuasion on informational fit-to-task so as to highlight the importance of task-information fit. specifically, the current study explores the effects of the central route (information quality of social media) and the peripheral route (source credibility of social media and reputation of social media) on informational fit-to-task with focused immersion as an ability variable. the results indicate that focused immersion positively moderates the effect of information quality on informational fit-to-task and negatively moderates the effect of reputation on informational fit-to-task. the findings and their implications are discussed.in recent years, research from various disciplines, including social psychology, sociology, economics, gender studies, and organizational behavior, has illuminated the importance of considering the various ways in which multiple social categories intersect to shape outcomes for women in the workplace. however, these findings are scattered across disciplines, making it difficult for organizational scholars to leverage this knowledge in the advancement of gender research. the purpose of this review is to assemble these findings to capture how gender and race, when considered in tandem, can generate new understandings about women of different racial groups and their experiences in the workplace. we first provide a review of both historic and contemporary interpretations of the intersectionality concept. next, using an intersectional framework, we review key findings on the distinct stereotypes ascribed to black, asian, and white women, and compare and contrast the differential impact of these stereotypes on hiring and leadership for these subgroups of women. building from these stereotypes, we further review research that explores the different job roles that black, asian, and white women occupy, specifically focusing on the impact of occupational segregation, organizational support, and the motherhood penalty. finally, we examine how the frequency, emotional toll, and legal implications of sexual harassment can vary for women of differing races. through this review, we bring attention to the pitfalls of studying women as a monolithic category and call for organizational scholars to consider the role of intersectionality in shaping workplace outcomes.the literatures on creativity and innovation are each premised on the same important assumption that has gone largely unquestioned: creativity and innovation are outcomes that are almost inherently positive. decades of research on creativity in organizations have been motivated by the assumption that creative ideas can be implemented to realize innovations that will inevitably increase profit, strengthen competitive advantage and ensure firm survival. the assumption that creativity and innovation have positive downstream consequences has constrained existing research by forcing a myopic focus on creativity and innovation as dependent variables. thus, in a significant departure from the existing literature, we turn the tables to conceptualize creativity and innovation as independent variables that can have a sweeping and frequently negative impact on a wide range of other important outcomes. we conclude by calling for a new stream of research to more soberly evaluate the direct costs, side effects and long-term consequences of creativity and innovation.how work gets done has changed fundamentally in recent decades, with a growing number of people working independently, outside of organizations in a style of work quite different from that assumed by many organizational behavior theories. to remain relevant, our research on individual work behaviors and the capabilities that enable them must also adapt to this new world of work, the so-called “gig economy.” we first describe the predictable challenges that individuals confront when working in this manner, including remaining viable, staying organized, maintaining identity, sustaining relationships, and coping emotionally. we then articulate a research agenda that pushes our field to focus on the specific capabilities and behaviors that enable people to manage these challenges effectively so as to survive or thrive in this new world of work. foregrounding individual agency, we articulate the work and relational behaviors necessary for such thriving, and the cognitive and emotional capabilities that undergird them.early career advantages in academia tend to accumulate, providing future advantages to postdocs as their careers continue. cumulative advantages can begin as early as in the training stage, where opportunities for success are primarily influenced by whether or not trainees have access to be engaged, positive and supportive mentoring relationships. strong postdoc–faculty relationships have been demonstrated to influence the postdoc's career satisfaction and success (davis, 2005) but can be challenging to establish and maintain. the nature of the postdoc position itself is a paradox of autonomy (trevelyan, 2001), with expectations of both training and independence that can be a hard balance for postdocs and faculty mentors to mutually attain. though lack of structured mentorship is a commonly reported mentoring challenge that limits postdoc advancement (fetzer, 2008; committee on science, 2014), micromanaged postdocs also face limitations in developing the skill sets required for their next career step (laudel & gläser, 2008).
               faculty mentors are also increasingly under strain due to pressures within the overall training system (alberts et al., 2014). these challenges affect the postdoc–mentor relationship in many ways: (1) juggling many of their own responsibilities limits the time faculty can commit to career mentoring and professional development; (2) faculty have limited knowledge and experience of nonacademic careers, even though many of their postdocs will transition into those pathways; (3) increased competition for research funding lowers faculty morale and increases the pressure on their trainees.
               in this chapter, we review the research-based mentoring literature and identify strategies that institutions and faculty can employ to mitigate some of the overarching challenges that negatively impact faculty mentoring practices and the postdoc–faculty relationship. through case studies, we highlight critical aspects of positive postdoc–faculty mentoring relationships—establishing expectations, clear communication, fostering independence, and creating inclusive research and teaching environments.the literature on the relationship between handedness and cognitive ability is riddled with studies using different conceptualizations of handedness (e.g., hand preference vs hand skill, direction vs degree, consistency vs inconsistency) and different conceptualizations of cognitive ability (intelligence vs distinct abilities), as well as different measurements thereof. recently the literature was summarized by means of meta-analytic techniques. the findings show quite robustly that when handedness is assessed as hand preference and individuals are classified according to direction (i.e., as left-handers vs right-handers), no differences in cognitive ability emerge between handedness groups. however, other evidence points to the importance of assessing degree rather than direction of handedness and of employing hand skill rather than hand preference measures. a meta-analysis of such studies has not been possible to date, due to their scarcity. it is here suggested that degree of handedness and hand skill measures are employed in future studies exploring the possible relationship between handedness and cognitive ability so as to elaborate whether or not such a relationship exists and if so, what its characteristics are.this integrative review presents the agentic–communal model of advantage and disadvantage to offer insight into the psychology of inequality. this model examines the relation between individuals’ position of advantage or disadvantage in a social hierarchy and their propensity toward agency and communion. we begin by identifying and reviewing four inequalities—resources, opportunities, appraisals, and deference, or the road of inequality—that are fundamental to social advantage and disadvantage. we explain how these inequalities can instill a sense of advantage and disadvantage in individuals. next, we discuss two core drivers of human behavior: agency and communion. we integrate these literatures to introduce the model's central propositions: a sense of advantage orients individuals toward agency and a sense of disadvantage orients individuals toward communion. we review evidence for this model across four distinct social hierarchies: power, social class, gender, and race. a number of findings suggest that higher-power individuals, higher-class individuals, men, and whites express greater agency, whereas lower-power individuals, lower-class individuals, women, and minorities express greater communion. we also consider results in the literature that appear inconsistent with our propositions (i.e., when the advantaged are communal and the disadvantaged are agentic) and offer theoretical integrations to resolve these apparent contradictions. in particular, we highlight how the orthogonal nature of agency and communion can produce behavior that results from the combination of high agency and communion. to help motivate a future research agenda, we note the importance of both hierarchy salience and cultural considerations in determining individuals’ orientations toward agency and communion. finally, we consider the implications of this model for the study of social hierarchy and inequality, as well as the consequences of rising inequality levels.why does economic inequality continue to rise despite being disfavored and harmful to individuals and society? to better understand this inequality paradox, we advance an inequality maintenance model of social class. we detail a set of five propositions to encapsulate the psychological processes that perpetuate class division in society—disparities between the rich and the poor—and we review recent supporting data. with respect to the structural processes that define social class, we show that class-differentiated experiences of threat, scarcity, and access to valued networks enhance economic inequality by compounding (dis)advantage in education, work, and relationships. with respect to social perceptual processes, we outline how social class is signaled and perceived during social interactions, triggering class-based stereotypes and patterns of distancing that reinforce inequality. with respect to ideological processes, we discuss how ideologies of merit legitimize economic inequality and bolster class division. with respect to moral–relational processes, we examine how class-based patterns of compassion, helping, and power seeking exacerbate economic inequality by concentrating resources among the upper class and constraining advancement among the lower class. finally, with respect to intergroup processes, we posit that social class group identities catalyze difficulties in cross-class affiliation, asymmetric resource sharing, and class conflict, strengthening class division in society. we conclude with a discussion of new research and future directions that can address class disparities and, ultimately, help foster a more equal society.in sub-saharan africa, unexploited land and water resources in wetlands represent an important potential for intensified, sustainable and food-secure farms through rice production and market gardening. the lack of uptake of cropping in wetlands may be related to the ways in which resources are divided between family fields and individual fields. the management system on sub-saharan african farms comprises a family management unit or a combination of a family management unit and one or more individual management units. the family management unit or the farm head controls production in family fields to satisfy family needs while the individual management units control production in individual fields to satisfy individual needs. our objective was to investigate the diversity in farm management systems and the resulting uptake of cropping in wetlands for different farm types, as the first step towards suggestions for enhancing rice production and market gardening in wetlands. we studied farms in two case-study villages in benin: zonmon in the southern part and pelebina in the north-western part.
                  farm typologies were developed based on random samples of 51 out of 134 farms (38%) from zonmon and 50 out of 146 farms (34%) from pelebina by combining principal component analysis and ward's minimum variance clustering. variables included in the pca were related to levels of resource endowment (e.g., amounts of land, family labour, cash for purchasing chemical inputs and hiring labour) and to resource-use strategies including resource division between family fields and individual fields, and between uplands and wetlands.
                  we identified 3 farm types in zonmon and 5 farm types in pelebina based on differences in resource-use strategies and in resource endowment. we found no trade-off between the existence of individual fields and the area under rice and market garden crops in wetlands. labour abundance was the main factor driving both the occurrence of individual fields and the expansion of cropping in wetlands. differences in labour division strategies between family and individual fields among farm types reflected differences in food and cash division strategies. land use appeared strongly motivated by food self-sufficiency objectives and labour productivity, leading to prioritisation of upland over wetland areas. in wetlands, most farm types opted for cultivating market garden crops during the dry season when labour demand for upland fields was low. our results indicate that increasing labour productivity in food crops and in rice and market garden crops would enhance the uptake of rice and market garden crops in wetlands. creating credit facilities would increase the labour resource and allow farmers to hire labour, further contributing to wetland use. we discuss the relevance of a systemic farm analysis that enables distinguishing family and individual fields for understanding farm uptake of rice and market garden crops in wetlands.the relationship between intelligence and handedness remains a matter of debate. the present study is a systematic review of 36 studies (totaling 66,108 individuals), which have measured full iq scores in different handedness groups. eighteen of those studies were further included in three sets of meta-analyses (totaling 20,442 individuals), which investigated differences in standardized mean iq scores in (i) left-handers, (ii) non-right-handers, and (iii) mixed-handers compared to right-handers. the bulk of the studies included in the systematic review reported no differences in iq scores between left- and right-handers. in the meta-analyses, statistically significant differences in mean iq scores were detected between right-handers and left-handers, but were marginal in magnitude (d
                     =−0.07); the data sets were found to be homogeneous. significance was lost when the largest study was excluded. no differences in mean iq scores were found between right-handers and non-right-handers as well as between right-handers and mixed-handers. no sex differences were found. overall, the intelligence differences between handedness groups in the general population are negligible.we introduce an alternative response instruction to reduce the fakability of situational judgment tests. this novel instruction is based on the false consensus effect, a robust social psychological bias whereby people infer that the majority of other people’s thoughts, attitudes, and behaviors are aligned with their own. in four studies, including both field and laboratory data (total n
                     =882), we demonstrate that participants show a false consensus bias when asked what others would do in situational judgment tests. furthermore, the situational judgment test based on the false consensus effect turned out to relatively difficult to be fake, and produced scores that were meaningfully correlated with conceptually related traits, as well as both self-reported and behavioral outcomes.we provide the first direct empirical evidence of the effect of ceo social capital on aggregate corporate risk-taking. our theory predicts that ceos with high social capital display higher levels of risk-seeking behavior. consistent with this prediction, we find a positive association between ceo social capital and aggregate corporate risk-taking. examining the channel, we show that social ties cause corporate policy actions, and these actions lead to greater volatilities in stock returns and earnings. in addition, we uncover a number of factors that significantly moderate the effects of social capital on risk-taking. we also show that this increase in risk-taking is value-enhancing to the firm. our results are robust to alternative proxies for risk-taking, alternative model specifications, and tests for endogeneity.decisions to reveal one's sexual orientation are assumed to be a volitional choice. prior research has shown, however, that people often learn about the lesbian, gay, or bisexual (lgb) identities of others through indirect means, such as gossip and stereotypical cues (ambady, hallahan, & conner, 1999; colgan, creegan, mckearney, & wright, 2007). we conduct two studies to determine the effects of these forms of prior identity-related knowledge on disclosure outcomes. first, a pre-test of study assumptions demonstrates that recipients of minority sexual orientation disclosures often have prior knowledge of those identities. second, a survey study examining the target's perspective finds that lgb people often suspect when others have prior knowledge of their identities, and this expected prior knowledge moderates the relationship between identity-management and subsequent experiences of discrimination. lastly, a lab experiment manipulating the level of prior identity-related knowledge establishes that this information directly influences interpersonal workplace outcomes of disclosures through perceptions of awkwardness but not through liking. together, these studies demonstrate support for our model of prior identity-related knowledge and highlight the importance of examining both prior identity-related knowledge as well as identity management strategies in predicting lgb workplace experiences.attaining a college degree has traditionally been assumed to be key to upward social and professional mobility. however, college graduates from working-class backgrounds achieve less career success in professional, white-collar workplaces compared to those from middle-class backgrounds. using a cultural models approach, we examine how the independent cultural beliefs and practices promoted by professional organizations disadvantage people from working-class backgrounds, who espouse interdependent beliefs and practices. our review illustrates how this disadvantage can manifest in two ways. first, despite relative equality in objective qualifications, it can occur at organizational gateways (e.g., interview and hiring decisions). second, even after people from working-class backgrounds gain access to an organization, it can occur along organizational pathways (e.g., performance evaluations and assignment to high-profile tasks).the science of science (sos) is a rapidly developing field which aims to understand, quantify and predict scientific research and the resulting outcomes. the problem is essentially related to almost all scientific disciplines and thus has attracted attention of scholars from different backgrounds. progress on sos will lead to better solutions for many challenging issues, ranging from the selection of candidate faculty members by a university to the development of research fields to which a country should give priority. while different measurements have been designed to evaluate the scientific impact of scholars, journals and academic institutions, the multiplex structure, dynamics and evolution mechanisms of the whole system have been much less studied until recently. in this article, we review the recent advances in sos, aiming to cover the topics from empirical study, network analysis, mechanistic models, ranking, prediction, and many important related issues. the results summarized in this review significantly deepen our understanding of the underlying mechanisms and statistical rules governing the science system. finally, we review the forefront of sos research and point out the specific difficulties as they arise from different contexts, so as to stimulate further efforts in this emerging interdisciplinary field.research on firm performance and corporate social performance (csp) has recently broadened to concurrently evaluate corporate social irresponsibility (csi) with corporate social responsibility (csr). however, little is known about the underlying mechanisms that impact the performance relationship, particularly the duration of the influence of csr initiatives and csi incidents and the impact of the interaction of csr and csi on firm performance. this research expands understanding by examining the combined impact of “doing good” and “doing bad” to allow a more robust examination of a firm's regime in pursuing a better strategic position through social performance. we examine the effects of csr and csi and their combined effects using a moderating high-low matrix. the empirical findings provide two uniquely interesting findings: csi incidents have a longer enduring effect than csr initiatives and those firms doing little csr and little csi perform better than firms engaging in high levels of both.a pressing issue concerns how to reduce stereotypic responses and discriminatory outcomes resulting from the operation of implicit biases. one possibility is that cognitive retraining, such as by repeatedly practicing counterstereotypes, can reduce implicit bias so that stereotype application will be reduced in turn. another possibility involves motivated self-regulation, where people's awareness of their proneness to biased responses heightens negative self-directed affect, which in turn facilitates monitoring for biases and reduces stereotype application. these possibilities were tested across three experiments. in all experiments, participants who completed counterstereotype training subsequently scored lower on a measure of implicit bias, relative to untrained participants. in experiments 1 and 2, counterstereotyping did not reduce subsequent stereotype application; in experiment 3, counterstereotyping did reduce stereotype application, but this effect was not mediated by implicit bias scores. participants in the motivated self-regulation condition (experiments 2 & 3) were primed with their proneness to respond in biased ways, which increased negative self-directed affect among participants more internally motivated to respond without bias. participants' degree of negative self-directed affect was not consistently associated with implicit bias scores. however, greater negative self-directed affect was associated with reduced stereotype application (experiment 2) and greater rejection of racist jokes (experiment 3). these results suggest that reductions of implicit bias through counterstereotype training do not, in turn, lead to reduced stereotype application. in contrast, the results support the viability of motivated self-regulation interventions that facilitate awareness of bias and heighten negative self-directed affect, thus creating the motivation to self-regulate stereotype application.we estimate the role that law enforcement officer experience has on the probability of punishment, using a unique data set of tickets issued by the idaho state police linked to human resource records. all else equal, officers issue fewer tickets earlier in their career than later in their career. quasi-exogenous shocks to an officer’s task-specific experience, generated by law changes, cause a temporary reduction in the frequency with which a subset of troopers “use” those laws, creating disparities in the likelihood that individual citizens are cited for law violations. the reduction in ticketing in response to a law change is largest for newer troopers, and law changes later in a trooper’s career have a smaller effect on his use of that law.to make decisions in probabilistic inference tasks, individuals integrate relevant information partly in an automatic manner. thereby, potentially irrelevant stimuli that are additionally presented can intrude on the decision process (e.g., söllner, bröder, glöckner, & betsch, 2014). we investigate whether such an intrusion effect can also be caused by potentially irrelevant or even misleading knowledge activated from memory. in four studies that combine a standard information board paradigm from decision research with a standard manipulation from social psychology, we investigate the case of stereotypes and demonstrate that stereotype knowledge can yield intrusion biases in probabilistic inferences from description. the magnitude of these biases increases with stereotype accessibility and decreases with a clarification of the rational solution.we use detailed, personally-assembled data on the performance of collegiate and professional basketball players over the 1997–2010 period, to look at the impact of performance in the ncaa “march madness” college basketball tournament on nba teams’ draft decisions and players’ ultimate success in the nba. we find that unexpected march madness (mm) performance, in terms of team wins and player scoring, affects draft decisions, and nba personnel who are making these draft decisions are not irrationally overweighting this mm information. if anything, the unexpected performance in the march madness tournament deserves more weight than it gets in the draft decisions.since the late 90s, regression discontinuity (rd) designs have been widely used to estimate local average treatment effects (late). when the running variable is observed with continuous measurement error, identification fails. assuming non-differential measurement error, we propose a consistent nonparametric estimator of the late when the discrepancy between the true running variable and its noisy measure is observed in an auxiliary sample of treated individuals, and when there are treated individuals at any value of the true running variable — two-sided fuzzy designs. we apply our method to estimate the effect of receiving unemployment benefits.background
                  an increasing number of women are pursuing a career in surgery. concurrently, the percentage of surgeons in dual-profession partnerships is increasing. we sought to evaluate the gender differences in professional advancement, work-life balance, and satisfaction at a large academic center.
               
                  materials and methods
                  all surgical trainees and faculty at a single academic medical center were surveyed. collected variables included gender, academic rank, marital status, family size, division of household responsibilities, and career satisfaction. student t-test, fisher's exact test, and chi-square test were used to compare results.
               
                  results
                  there were 127 faculty and 116 trainee respondents (>80% response rate). respondents were mostly male (77% of faculty, 58% of trainees). women were more likely than men to be married to a professional (90% versus 37%, for faculty; 82% versus 41% for trainees, p < 0.001 for both) who was working full time (p < 0.001) and were less likely to be on tenure track (p = 0.002). women faculty were more likely to be primarily responsible for childcare planning (p < 0.001), meal planning (p < 0.001), grocery shopping (p < 0.001), and vacation planning (p = 0.003). gender-neutral responsibilities included financial planning (p = 0.04) and monthly bill payment (p = 0.03). gender differences in division of household responsibilities were similar in surgical trainees except for childcare planning, which was a shared responsibility.
               
                  conclusions
                  women surgeons are more likely to be partnered with a full-time working spouse and to be primarily responsible for managing their households. additional consideration for improvement in recruitment and retention strategies for surgeons might address barriers to equalizing these gender disparities.quasi-experimental studies are increasingly used to establish causal relationships in epidemiology and health systems research. quasi-experimental studies offer important opportunities to increase and improve evidence on causal effects: (1) they can generate causal evidence when randomized controlled trials are impossible; (2) they typically generate causal evidence with a high degree of external validity; (3) they avoid the threats to internal validity that arise when participants in nonblinded experiments change their behavior in response to the experimental assignment to either intervention or control arm (such as compensatory rivalry or resentful demoralization); (4) they are often well suited to generate causal evidence on long-term health outcomes of an intervention, as well as nonhealth outcomes such as economic and social consequences; and (5) they can often generate evidence faster and at lower cost than experiments and other intervention studies.employees often share personal information with professional contacts on social media (e.g., facebook), complicating boundaries between private and professional identities. according to ollier-malaterre, rothbard, and berg (2013), the online behavior of employees on social media can be described by what they communicate online about themselves determined by their self-evaluation motives (self-verification vs. self-enhancement) and with whom they prefer to connect on social media (integration vs. segmentation of personal and professional identities). this study tests the effects of these strategies on respect and likability in a professional context. we conducted an online experiment (n = 257) in which individuals were exposed to a facebook profile page illustrating a particular type of boundary management behavior of a possible colleague. respondents rated the individual on ‘likability’ and ‘respect’. results indicated that integrating personal and professional contacts yields higher levels of likability than segmenting them. posting self-enhancing messages results in higher levels of respect than posting self-verifying messages. findings imply that the best strategy to preserve respect and likability among colleagues is to integrate professional contacts on facebook and post self-enhancing messages (so called ‘content’ behavior).this article proposes a framework examining the impact of non-native accents on speakers' work and career outcomes, namely, career advancement and career satisfaction. drawing on stigma theory, we present a conceptual model to assess cognitive, affective, and behavioral reactions towards non-native accents. we contend that speaking with a non-native accent is linked with (i) managers' perceptions of speakers' fluency, (ii) expectations concerning non-native speakers' performance abilities, (iii) positive regard in social interactions and (iv) supervision style towards speakers with non-native accents. moreover, we suggest that speaking with a non-native accent may lead speakers to (i) feel excluded and devalued at work, and (ii) assume an avoidance approach at work. together, these effects can create a self-fulfilling prophecy that negatively affects non-native speakers' work and career outcomes. we also suggest that the strength of accents' consequences depend on the presence of particular person-related (accent prestige, exposure to the non-native accent, and non-native speakers' goal orientation) and job-related factors (nature of the job and company ethnocentrism). implications for theory and practice are discussed.concerns about faking on pre-employment personality assessment are well founded as respondents often dissimulate. this potentially affects the accuracy of hiring decisions, predictive validity of assessment scores, and defensibility of using personality assessment for high-stakes decision making. we use jackson's forced-choice instrument and provide novel construct validity evidence. moreover, our laboratory and field evidence suggests that although respondents are able to elevate test scores in similar magnitudes when instructed, they do not elevate their scores as much when using the forced-choice format.why are certain members of parliament (mps) more likely to get re-candidacy for national legislative elections, therefore having the possibility to continue their career? this article answers this question by comparing political elites' long-debated explanations with more legislative behaviour-related factors. by focusing on more than 25 years of the italian lower house's history, we have built a novel dataset on the legislative behaviour and career patterns of more than 3500 italian mps. a multilevel logistic regression analysis shows that, with the exception of party switching, legislative behaviour does not seem to exert a significant impact on mps' re-candidacy. on the contrary, the career status of parliamentarians, i.e., their parliamentary position or their ministerial historical record, strongly influences their chances of obtaining re-candidacy.majority of parents use social media platforms, with young mothers being the most active users. academic research has only recently started addressing the impact of social media on mothers, although they are one of the most engaged online audiences. instagram and facebook perceived as positive types of social media, where users post positive content to increase encouraging response from their subscribers and thus enhance their self-esteem. this also relates to mothers portraying positive self-presentation online, therefore enhancing their parental self-esteem. this study provides in-depth analysis of 23 popular online profiles of mothers with more than thirty thousand followers on instagram and 12 interviews with socially active mothers. this work focuses on mothers in russia. research findings show mothers with children of pre-school age are the most regular users of social media. this is due to time availability, as majority of these mothers are on maternity leave and due to little knowledge in child related aspects, which leads to lower self-esteem. they often look for assurance in online community. mothers that are more confident have positive attitude towards social media communication. mothers with initially lower self-esteem feel under pressure to maintain positive image to be in line with other mothers' presentation on social media. mothers find facebook more informative and supportive vehicle of communication than instagram.whether recruiters accurately infer personality from resumes is currently a topic of great interest in the light of technological advancements and new types of resume formats (like video resumes) that are increasingly being used. based on predictions from the realistic accuracy model and the media richness theory, we investigated whether real recruiters (n = 296) are able to infer applicants' big five personality characteristics more accurately from video and audio resumes than from less information-rich resume formats (like paper resumes) and whether applicants' perceived attractiveness (physical/vocal) affects accuracy judgments. as expected and with the exception of extraversion, personality was not accurately judged from paper resumes. interestingly, information-rich resume formats and applicants' perceived attractiveness did not affect accuracy judgments. despite recruiters' stubborn reliance on their capacity to infer personality from resume information, study findings clearly showed that different types of resumes –also the new, more information-rich ones– are no valid tools to infer candidates' personality from.charismatic leaders have consistently been shown to affect followers' performance, motivation, and satisfaction. yet, what precisely constitutes charisma still remains somewhat enigmatic. so far, research has mainly focused on leader traits, leader behaviors, or the leader follower-relationship, and the subsequent consequences of each on followers' self-concepts. all of these approaches share the notion that leader charisma depends on an explicit interaction between leader and follower. with the present review paper, we extend extant theorizing by arguing that charisma is additionally informed by embodied signals that flow directly from either the leader or the immediate environment. we introduce the embodiment perspective on human perception and describe its utility for theoretically understanding the charismatic effect. correspondingly, we review studies that show which concrete embodied cues can support the charismatic effect. finally, we discuss the variety of new theoretical and practical implications that arise from this research and how they can complement existing approaches to charismatic leadership.the extent to which response distortion – such as social desirability responding (sdr) – is present in self–report measures is an issue of concern and debate in personality research, as it may seriously impact such measures' psychometric indices. the present research aimed at using the social value framework to shed new light on sdr in self–report personality tests. two studies tested the moderating role of individual differences in perceived social desirability of the openness to experience dimension for test–retest reliability and predictive validity of a typical openness measure. results support the hypothesized moderating role of perceived social desirability for improving test–retest reliability, providing the testing condition guarantees full anonymity (study 1), and for predictive validity (study 2). findings are discussed with regards to sdr in personality research and the social value framework.prior research has emphasized the influence of inter-firm mobility on knowledge flows and innovation, yet we have an incomplete picture of the antecedents of inventor mobility. building on theoretical traditions related to decision-making based on limited, asymmetric, bounded information, and economic and other incentives, our paper suggests that after controlling for individual performance and other variables previously shown to affect inter-organizational mobility, an inventor’s performance relative to his co-patenting group alters his likelihood of mobility. our analysis of 2648 inventors in the pharmaceutical industry shows that for those performing above their reference group (of past and current co-inventors in patenting), an increase in relative performance decreases the likelihood of mobility, and for those performing below the reference group, a decrease in relative performance decreases the likelihood of mobility. we also find that when inventors have more external scientific collaborations, their likelihood of mobility increases and this variable moderates the relationship between the performance gap and mobility, but only for those performing above their peers.the current study examined the influence of facial attractiveness and weight status on personality trait attributions (e.g., honest, friendly) among more and less facially attractive as well as thin and overweight models. participants viewed pictures of one of four types of models (overweight/less attractive, overweight/more attractive, thin/less attractive, thin/more attractive) and rated their attractiveness (facial, body, overall) and personality on 15 traits. facial attractiveness and weight status additively impacted personality trait ratings. in mediation analyses, the facial attractiveness condition was no longer associated with personality traits after controlling for perceived facial attractiveness in 12 personality traits. conversely, the thin and overweight condition was no longer associated with personality traits after controlling for perceived body attractiveness in only 2 personality traits. post hoc moderation analysis indicated that weight status differently influenced the association between body attractiveness and personality trait attribution. findings bear implications for attractiveness bias, weight bias, and discrimination research.in this study, we use a sample of chinese companies to examine the monitoring role of foreign directors in deterring earnings management. our findings show that earnings management is significantly negatively associated with the presence and ratio of foreign directors on corporate boards. we further find that, under these conditions, earnings management is less pronounced in state-owned enterprises as compared to others. these findings are robust to various specifications of earnings management as well as to the approach used in matching the treatment and control samples. interestingly, the negative impact of board membership of foreign directors on earnings management varies with audit quality, ifrs convergence, investor protection and the similarity or difference of the time zones of the foreign directors and china.a logistic regression model was used to investigate the effects of financial literacy, financial advisors, and information sources on life insurance participation. our empirical findings suggest that people with high financial literacy are more likely to purchase life insurance and that consultations with financial advisors and conversations with family members and friends are both positively associated with the demand for life insurance. participant characteristics, such as age, gender, marital status, working status, and personal income, are also major factors affecting the demand for life insurance. moreover, the taiwan financial supervisory commission education program can increase the demand for life insurance.introduction
                  although obesity stigma is pervasive, relatively little research has examined the extent to which the discrimination obese individuals experience extends to helping behavior.
               
                  objectives
                  the purpose of the current set of experiments was to determine whether strangers help heavy individuals less than non-heavy individuals, and to examine the impact that moderating cues (e.g., justifying or suppressing prejudice, crandall & eshleman, 2003) of weight-based discrimination and gender might have on helping behavior.
               
                  study 1
                  the first study was an experiment conducted online through mturk. participants rated their willingness to support a proposed charity event and their perceptions of the event organizer, whose picture was manipulated to be heavy or non-heavy. we found evidence that people were less willing to help and held more negative perceptions of heavy (than non-heavy) individuals.
               
                  study 2
                  the second study was a field experiment in which confederates either wearing or not wearing obesity prosthetics solicited help from others on a college campus. relative to the non-heavy, heavy individuals again were less likely to be helped and received more impolite interpersonal treatment, as rated by observers. additionally, women were denigrated more than men for being heavy, but cues that suppressed discrimination helped increase the amount of help received and the politeness of strangers.
               
                  conclusion
                  the overt and subtle discrimination overweight individuals experience extends to situations when they are asking for help, and this is especially the case for heavy women. however, displaying stereotype-inconsistent cues benefit overweight individuals by increasing the likelihood of them being helped and treated well.this paper measures the impact of individual-level housing capital gains on transitions into and out of self-employment. drawing on special features of the 1985–2013 american housing survey (ahs) panel, our most robust models control for recent expenditures on home maintenance, msa-by-year fixed effects, lagged proxies for wealth and other household attributes. net of home maintenance, a 20% real increase in home value over a two-year period raises the likelihood of entry into self-employment by roughly 1.5 percentage points; housing capital losses have little effect on exits. controlling for house fixed effects, self-employed homeowners are also more likely to hold a heloc, facilitating easy, low-cost access to home equity that could be used to cover business expenses. these and other estimates suggest that links between homeownership and self-employment are strong enough to be important when home prices are rising rapidly, but modest when housing capital gains are limited or negative.a field experiment and a lab experiment investigated how white americans react to foreigners who present themselves either using original names or anglo names. drawing on self-categorization theory, hypotheses were derived from a partial ingroup membership framework. in study 1, an email from a chinese student requesting a meeting about graduate training was sent to 419 white professors with the name of the sender being varied (xian versus alex). use of the chinese name led to fewer responses and agreements to meet than using the anglo name. in study 2, a lecture recording from an international graduate student was presented to 185 white undergraduates with the name of the lecturer varied (jian versus john). the preference for anglo (chinese) names over chinese (anglo) names was apparent among those high (low) in assimilationist and low (high) in multicultural ideologies. these findings point to an important interplay between partial intergroup membership and acculturation ideologies of perceivers in predicting bias. future research directions from both minority and majority perspectives are discussed.management scholars are beginning to provide empirical evidence that organization identity (oi) can be a powerful means of reducing agency costs. we examine whether an individual's identity with the firm influences the agency costs associated with incentive contracts, namely earnings manipulation. based on oi theory, we expect that managers who identify with the firm gain utility by taking actions that in their view benefits the firm, and experience disutility from taking actions that are harmful to the firm. drawing on a third-party survey database, we find that performance-based compensation is associated with higher levels of earnings manipulation. importantly, we also find that managers with incentive-based compensation engage in lower levels of opportunistic earnings manipulation when they identify with the firm.we study how experienced agents solve a sequential search problem. in professional basketball teams must shoot within 24s of the start of a “possession.” the decision of when to shoot requires weighing the current shooting opportunity against the continuation value of a possession. at each second of the “shot clock,” optimal play requires that a lineup's reservation shot value equals the continuation value. we empirically test this prediction with a structural stopping model. most lineups adopt a reservation threshold that matches the continuation value closely. overall, the lineups we study capture 84% of the gains of a dynamic vs. an optimal fixed threshold. lineups with more shared playing experience performed better on average. observed mistakes lean towards “impatience” – the adopted threshold is either in too low or has excess steepness – meanings too many shots are taken early in the possession.this study examines whether the academic performance and the participation in extracurricular activities affect the perceived employability of business graduates using an experimental between-subjects factorial design. eight fictitious résumés of business graduates varying in terms of academic performance, participation in extracurricular activities and gender were rated by 349 portuguese working adults. the results showed that a high academic performance combined with the participation in extracurricular activities resulted in higher perceived employability, whereas the participation in extracurricular activities combined with a modest academic performance resulted in lower job suitability but nearly identical high ratings of personal organization and time management, and learning skills. these inferences were unaffected by either applicant gender or respondent's characteristics. the findings highlight the prominence of academic performance that combined with extracurricular activities can be a valuable distinctiveness approach to ease the entrance in the labour market of business graduates.there have been numerous studies examining the various manners in which female managers are subjected to negative stereotypes and bias, and how such bias influences hiring decisions. we sought to study the job selection challenge within the specific context of project management, a discipline that has historically been viewed as male-dominated, focusing on perceived differences in male and female job candidates based on a set of critical personal/managerial characteristics, including perceived competence, trust, likeability, and lack of perceived self-interest. we developed a scenario-based survey questionnaire and a between-subjects research design, sampled 312 project management personnel and tested subjects' reactions to two candidates for a project management position, employing identical descriptions and language while only changing the candidate's name: susan or stan. our results suggested that all independent variables are significant predictors of the likelihood of a project manager candidate being hired. we only found evidence of gender bias in relation to perceived technical competence; in situations where the perceived technical competence of the job candidate was low, the female candidate was less likely to be hired over a male counterpart. on the other hand, as a candidate's perceived technical competence increased, the resulting attributions were significantly more beneficial for the female job seeker, who was more likely to be hired over a male candidate.the hospitality and tourism industry is suffering from a labor shortage, and migrant workers are supplying a large portion of labor in the contemporary economic market. this study extends the theory of person-organization fit in the context of hospitality migrant workers. this study also examines the effect of person-organization fit on migrant workers’ turnover intentions via job satisfaction and work adjustment. the results reveal that all three levels of fit, person-supervisor, person-group, and person-job, have a significant influence on work adjustment and job satisfaction, which in turn influence migrant employees’ turnover intentions. among the three types of fit, person-group fit was the only one to have a direct effect on predicting turnover intentions. the findings imply that hr managers should make good hiring decisions for migrant employees based on the perceived three levels of fit between the applicant and the organization.when searching for jobs, many people resort to presenting themselves in ways construed to appeal the most to potential employers. subsequently, they are prone to self-objectification (so), a phenomenon studied so far in social psychology, but insufficiently in media psychology, and even less so in the context of job search through social networks. whereas prior research shows mostly negative, i.e., dehumanizing so effects, positive effects were also identified, e.g., reduced uncertainty and increased self-efficacy perceptions. the present correlational study proposes and validates a scale for job-search related so, and applies this to verify a conceptual model of so effects and predictors, based on a survey involving n = 258 social network users and structural equations modeling. a positive so effect on job related self-efficacy and well-being was found. the study adds to social networks research, as well as to social psychological so research, emphasizing positive so effects. implications for further research, practice and development are discussed.higher education is increasingly engaged with diversity initiatives, especially those focused on women in academic leadership, whilst there is an evolving literature across the humanities and the social, management and natural sciences, critiquing academia’s gendered hierarchies. in contrast, senior academics in the field of tourism management have largely eluded similar sustained analysis. this paper builds on recent gender-aware studies of tourism’s leading academics with three aims. firstly, to widen evidence of gendering in tourism’s academic leadership by scrutinizing and contextualizing performance indicators, which make and mark its leaders and shape its knowledge canon. secondly, since critique alone cannot lead to transformation, the paper seeks to ‘undo’ gender in tourism’s academy. thirdly the paper presents interventions to accelerate academic gender equity.this study uses signaling theory to examine the role of media coverage on ipo stock performance. specifically, it investigates how coverage in credible financial media and the tone of media coverage about an ipo firm before and after its listing influence its stock performance. results show that coverage in credible financial media about an ipo firm significantly impacts its stock price. additionally, the findings show that uncertainty in the tone of media coverage about an ipo firm adversely influences its stock price. overall, these findings contribute to signaling theory by addressing the impact of uncertain signals on investor behavior. moreover, the findings reported in this study also contribute to the growing organizational literature on media by emphasizing the need for scholars to examine the content of media coverage, and specifically the role of uncertain media coverage, on firm-level variables.a sudden change in monetary policy happened in switzerland on january 15th, 2015. the swiss national bank removed the lower exchange rate bound vis-à-vis the euro. we believe that uncertainty concerning a vital economic indicator as the exchange rate should influence economic activities. we argue that the unexpected removal of the lower bound induced a temporary uncertainty about future prices in foreign markets and believe that this influenced firm investment in the short term. we exploit the unexpected change in monetary policy as a natural experiment and use the continuous nature of business tendency surveys to determine the role of uncertainty in the immediate aftermath of the event. changes in firm-level expectations are measured by specially designed survey questions. we use this information to disentangle first and second moment effects. we find that uncertainty negatively affects investment in equipment and machinery through real-option effects and believe that uncertainty positively influences expenditures in research and development through growth-option effects. finally, we argue that focusing on aggregate gross fixed capital formation masks important insights and suggest the use of disaggregated investment data in future research on the relationship between uncertainty and investment.as evidenced by the publication of three meta-analyses in 2013, the importance of collective turnover is garnering increasing attention. although each of these meta-analyses delivers a unique and significant impact to the hr literature, there remain opportunities to expand and build upon their contributions. in a comparison of the three extant meta-analyses, we found over 90 unique papers that were included in only one of each of the three studies, and >10 new studies published since 2013. we combined and expanded the existing meta-analyses, offering a comparison of results, as well as contributing to a greater understanding of the role of collective turnover. in the most comprehensive analysis to date, analyzing 2149 effect sizes from 159 studies across 150 articles, we find both support for and divergence from several previously examined relationships, as well as evidence of a curvilinear turnover-performance relationship and of the contagious influence of turnover.colorblindness and multiculturalism offer divergent prescriptions for reducing racial tensions. colorblindness encourages looking beyond racial differences, whereas multiculturalism encourages recognizing them. we introduce a new construct, perceived intentionality of racial discrimination (pird)—individuals' beliefs about how intentional discrimination is—to help explain when and why colorblindness versus multiculturalism will be preferred, and potentially more effective, for improving race relations. we first establish the distinctiveness of the pird construct and assess its stability over time and across intergroup contexts (studies 1–2). we then observe that greater pird predicts beliefs that colorblindness versus multiculturalism will improve race relations (studies 2–5), in part because unintentional (versus intentional) discrimination is perceived to stem from ignorance and misunderstanding versus knowingly treating racial groups unequally (studies 4, 5b). evidence also suggests that pird may shape the actual merits of colorblindness and multiculturalism for improving race relations via encouraging donations (study 6), positive interracial interaction intentions (study 7), and comfort with discussing race following the widely-publicized shooting of a black teen (study 8). taken together, our empirical findings demonstrate the usefulness of pird for understanding, predicting, and influencing individuals' preferences for colorblindness versus multiculturalism.objective
                  despite known benefits of diversity, certain racial/ethnic groups remain underrepresented in academic pediatrics. little research exists regarding unconscious racial attitudes among pediatric faculty responsible for decisions on workforce recruitment and retention in academia. this study sought to describe levels of unconscious racial bias and perceived barriers to minority recruitment and retention among academic pediatric faculty leaders.
               
                  methods
                  authors measured unconscious racial bias in a sample of pediatric faculty attending diversity workshops conducted at local and national meetings in 2015. a paper version of the validated implicit association test (iat) measured unconscious racial bias. subjects also reported perceptions about minority recruitment and retention.
               
                  results
                  of 68 eligible subjects approached, 58 (85%) consented and completed the survey with iat. of participants, 83% had leadership roles and 93% were involved in recruitment. participants had slight pro-white/anti-black bias on the iat (m = 0.28, sd = 0.49). there were similar iat scores among participants in leadership roles (m = 0.33, sd = 0.47) and involved in recruitment (m = 0.28, sd = 0.43). results did not differ when comparing participants in local workshops to the national workshop (n = 36, m = 0.29, sd = 0.40 and n = 22, m = 0.27, sd = 0.49 respectively; p = 0.88). perceived barriers to minority recruitment and retention included lack of minority mentors, poor recruitment efforts, and lack of qualified candidates.
               
                  conclusions
                  unconscious pro-white/anti-black racial bias was identified in this sample of academic pediatric faculty and leaders. further research is needed to examine how unconscious bias impacts decisions in academic pediatric workforce recruitment. addressing unconscious bias and perceived barriers to minority recruitment and retention represent opportunities to improve diversity efforts.why do firms evade taxes? we tackle this question by studying firms in the formal sector operating in countries with different institutional backgrounds, and comparing the incentives and constraints of staying within the formal sector against the competitive pressures originating from the informal sector. we argue that it is the combination of these factors that largely explains formal firms’ tax evasion decisions. our findings highlight the dark side of competition, particularly when it originates from perceivably unfair sources (i.e. from the informal sector). we also shed light on how this effect is moderated by the institutional conditions of the environment.despite considerable research investigating the role of influence tactics on work-related outcomes in organizations, consensus on the effectiveness of influence tactics has been elusive. specifically, there is a lack of integration concerning the relationships between proactive influence tactics and their outcomes. we investigate the effectiveness of 11 influence tactics from a comprehensive perspective using meta-analytic techniques. in particular, the current study focuses on relationships between each of the 11 influence tactics (i.e., rational persuasion, exchange, inspirational appeal, legitimating, apprising, pressure, collaboration, ingratiation, consultation, personal appeals, and coalition) and task- and relations-oriented outcomes. in addition, we investigate the moderating effects of the direction of influence tactics, measurement of influence tactics, singular influence tactic (versus use of a combination of influence tactics), independence of data sources, and study setting involved in the study. regardless of task- and relations-oriented outcomes, based on 49 independent samples (n
                     =8987), our results show positive relationships between outcomes and rational persuasion, inspirational appeal, apprising, collaboration, ingratiation, consultation, and a negative relationship between pressure and outcomes. rational persuasion is the only tactic which held stable positive relationships with both categories of outcomes regardless of moderating factors. implications and directions for future research in the area of influence tactics are discussed.non-cognitive constructs such as personality traits and behavioral tendencies show predictive validity for academic performance and incremental validity over and above cognitive constructs. therefore, non-cognitive predictors are increasingly used in admission procedures for higher education, typically measured using-self-report instruments. it is well known that self-report instruments are sensitive to self-presentation, especially in high-stakes contexts. however, remarkably few studies investigated the effect of self-presentation on predictive validity. the effect of self-presentation in applicants to an undergraduate psychology program was studied using a repeated measures design. respondents completed self-report questionnaires measuring non-cognitive predictors of academic performance before admission to the program, and again after admission. scores were compared between contexts, as well as predictive validity, incremental validity, and potential hiring decisions. results showed differences in scores between contexts on all scales, attenuated predictive validity for most scales, attenuated incremental validity when scores obtained in the admission context were used, and effects on admission decisions. in conclusion, validity results based on scores measured in low-stakes contexts cannot simply be generalized to high-stakes contexts. furthermore, results obtained in a high-stakes context may result in self-presentation irrespective of whether participants are informed that their scores are used for selection decisions or not.we combine two lines of research on inventive and creative performance that have been separated before. we use empirical models of the performance of inventors over their careers based on an established theoretical framework of the drivers of creativity, the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other (ksao) model. we link survey information spanning the inventors’ entire careers and psychometric test evidence with patent history data for more than 1000 inventors. we also control for variables that have traditionally been used in studies of inventive performance including inventor age, applicant type, technology, patent, and time information. we show that educational level, skills acquired during the career, personality traits, career motivation, cognitive ability, and cognitive problem-solving style are significantly related to inventive performance.this study examines whether and how top management internationalization is associated with accounting quality. we combine upper echelons perspectives, agency theory, human capital theory and accounting research, and demonstrate that top management internationalization mitigates the level of managerial discretion in financial reporting. by decomposing the top management team, our analysis reveals that higher levels of accounting quality are associated with the internationalization of the cfo, not the internationalization of the ceo. in particular, we find that cfo’s international education and international work experience are important factors in higher accounting quality.buyers’ loyalty is critical for the success and survival of any online seller. prior research regards social capital as an important determinant of an individual’s behavior. however, current knowledge on how social capital is built in the consumer-to-consumer (c2c) e-commerce context is incomplete. drawing on signaling theory and social capital theory, this study proposes a model to investigate how sellers’ website quality (i.e., information quality, system quality and service quality) affects the development of social capital between buyers and sellers, which in turn improves buyers’ loyalty in the c2c online shopping context. data collected from 307 buyers on taobao, china’s largest c2c online shopping platform, was used to empirically test the research model. the results indicate that not all of these three dimensions of website quality are positively related to cognitive and structural capital. furthermore, although cognitive and relational capital are positively related to buyers’ loyalty, structural capital is not associated with buyers’ loyalty. our findings bridge the literature gap about the formation of social capital in the c2c e-commerce context by demonstrating how website quality dimensions exert different effects on cognitive and structural capital. for online sellers, the results suggest that they should strategically offer appropriate website quality dimensions to build social capital with buyers in order to maintain buyers’ loyalty.it is widely demonstrated that men and women have differentiated managerial styles. this study explores the differences in gender managerial styles based on the answers provided by the students of a master on project management to a case study. in such case study, a series of scenarios are given to the students for them to take decisions with the perspective of a project manager. the case study includes 53 situations and each situation has four different options. the case study is not designed to analyze gender or leadership style differences, it is simply an exercise for the students to choose an option and justify the decisions they may make. despite of this limitation, it has been found that men and women make different decisions at least in relation to some scenarios related to project management. the study carried out have found differences in 5 of 53 situations. it has been demonstrated the statistical significance at least for one of those situations be means of chi-square test of hypothesis. this situation remarks the most authoritarian approach of men against the most social of women.how can a proponent of change mobilize groups and organizations in support of a common project? building on an extensive review of social movement theorizing and action, we argue that shared interests, network connections, the availability of resources, and the emergence of political, market and corporate opportunities (the standard topics discussed in extant literature) may be necessary, but are often insufficient for spurring mobilization. conversely, cultural factors such as frames, identities, or practices are essential. their presence can facilitate coordinated action even among unlikely allies, and their absence can prevent such action. inspired by the work of saul alinsky (1909–1972), along with contemporary illustrations, we construct a two-step model of the role of culture in mobilizing for change. we bring attention to a change proponent’s cultural competence – skill in appreciating the different cultural meanings and values of those involved in a particular project of change – and cultural brokerage – skill in bridging and negotiating among actors with different cultural repertoires, to reach a temporary truce or covenant. we focus on two types of activities that define cultural brokerage, integration and redefinition, and apply them to the cultural factors of frames, identities, and/or practices. our paper contributes to contemporary research on social movements, institutional theory, and cultural sociology.how easily can our first impressions of others be updated when we learn new, contradictory evidence? we review recent work in the social cognition literature on the ways in which implicit evaluations can be updated in a durable and robust manner. these findings show that implicit evaluations of novel individuals can be revised when the new information is believable and diagnostic, and if it reinterprets the evaluative meaning of the original information. we discuss implications of this evidence for the degree to which evaluative memories can be updated, as well as new directions for theories of human evaluation and implicit cognition.the primary aim of this chapter is to provide a framework to understand and synthesize the processes of person construal—early perceptions that lead to initial ingroup/outgroup categorizations—with the processes involved in intergroup relations. to this end, we review research examining the initial perception and categorization of ingroup and outgroup members and its downstream consequences. we first discuss bottom-up processes in person construal based on visual features (e.g., facial prototypicality and bodily cues), and then discuss how top-down factors (e.g., beliefs, stereotypes) may influence these processes. next, we examine how the initial categorization of targets as ingroup or outgroup members influences identification, stereotyping, and group-based evaluations, and the relations between these constructs. we also explore the implications of the activation of these constructs for a range of social judgments including emotion identification, empathy, and intergroup behaviors. finally, we describe a variety of well established and more recent strategies to reduce intergroup bias that target the activation of category-based knowledge, including intergroup contact, approach orientations, evaluative conditioning, and perspective taking.using a think aloud protocol, the interaction between motivation to fake and personality item characteristics (social desirability and face validity) on both response processes and self-ratings were studied under three instructional sets. the first study compared respond honestly to a fake-good instructional set, and results indicated that motivation to fake and item characteristics have interactive effects on both response processes and self-ratings. the second study replicated the first study using an applicant instructional set and results indicated that applicant response processes and self-ratings were more similar to the respond honestly instructional set than fake-good instructional set from study 1. however, there were meaningful differences between the applicant and respond honestly instructional sets. results were discussed in relation to process models of faking, importance of considering item characteristics in all faking research, and practical implications related to the predictive accuracy of personality scales and detection of faking.contemporary studies of chief financial officers (cfo) paint a picture of the role pre-1960 as being reflective of a more transactional one. historical research sheds some doubt on this, and tends not to separate the role from its occupier. we provide an analysis of such a role in a large brewery from about 1920 to 1945. drawing on the concept of position-practices, our results suggest that a cfo-predecessor role was informed by existing position-practices, which are separately identifiable from the occupier of the role itself. some of the position-practices are recognizable in contemporary cfo roles. importantly, focusing on the role as opposed to the occupier, gives our study potential to more broadly inform future research on the contemporary role.psychology as a field is in the midst of what is sometimes called a “crisis” because false findings are prevalent. although the focus of the methodological and substantive criticisms of psychology has focused on social psychology, psychophysiology research is not without its problems. the author discusses (a) researcher flexibility and its impact on the stability of conclusions and (b) the role power plays in the probability that a finding is true and the precision of estimates. the author uses examples and data from psychophysiological research to illustrate the problems. the author concludes with a discussion of ways to shift the practice of science to improve the reliability of findings. suggestions for improvement include: increased power through collaboration, improved statistical and methodological training, pre-registration of studies, improved reporting standards, and shifting incentives surrounding hiring and promotion.small and medium size enterprises’ (sme) manufacturing strategy configurations are identified in a small developed economy with the aim to explore how sme manufacturing strategy configurations affect business stability and performance during a period of macroeconomic shock. drawing on a survey-based dataset, our two-step cluster analysis results suggest that three distinctive manufacturing strategy configurations can be observed among the smes of the finnish manufacturing sector, namely: responsive niche-innovators, subcontractors, and engineer-servers. furthermore, we are able to establish a link between the strategy configurations and business stability and performance. the results support conclusions that the nature of manufacturing strategy taxonomies are driven by the business context, and that volume flexibility, design flexibility and service provision capabilities enable better business outcomes during macroeconomic shocks, in comparison to the more easily achievable conformance quality as well as delivery speed and dependability. in light of this research, best performing cluster under the macroeconomic shock is the engineer-servers, emphasizing flexibility-oriented broad product line and after sales service, while having less priority concerning low price and volume flexibility. the results offer important insights for managers, but also for other stakeholders in the form of for example expert systems development for sme funding decisions.human resource (hr) professionals are increasingly using social networking websites (snws) for personnel recruitment and selection processes. however, evidence is required regarding their psychometric properties and their impact on applicant reactions. in this paper we present and discuss the results of exploring applicant reactions to either the use of a professional snw (such as linkedin) or a non-professional snw (such as facebook). a scale for assessing applicant reactions was applied to 124 professionals. the results showed more positive attitudes to the use of professional snws compared with non-professional snws. both gender and age moderated these results, with females and young applicants having a less positive attitude than males and older participants towards the use of non-professional snws.academic cheating is an epidemic that higher educational institutions have struggled to contain. the pervasiveness of cheating among business majors is alarming as students who cheat in the academic setting are more likely to engage in unethical behavior while in the workplace (carpenter et al., 2004; mccabe et al., 1996; nonis & swift, 2001). while the business and accounting literature has previously explored academic and demographic characteristics associated with cheating, the extant research has not explored whether there is a relationship between students' perceptions as to the utility of ethics in the workplace (defined as the importance employers place on ethics when hiring applicants for entry-level positions) and the prevalence of academic cheating. thus, the purpose of this research is to determine the relationship between undergraduate business and accounting students' perceptions of the utility of ethical behavior in the workplace and their likelihood to cheat in school. using pls-sem, this study concludes that the frequency of cheating in each of the four categories examined (planned cheating, spontaneous cheating, plagiarism, and improper use of resources) was predicted to increase for every standardized increase in rank of ethics toward less important. the relationship existed even when testing for social desirability bias.we investigate whether politicians award intergovernmental grants to core supporters. our new dataset contains information on discretionary project grants from a german state government to municipalities over the period 2008–2011. the results show that discretionary grants were awarded to municipalities with many core supporters of the incumbent state government. discretionary grants per capita increased by about 1.4 percent when the vote share of the incumbent party in the state election increased by one percentage point. the fiscal capacity of a municipality does, by contrast, not predict the level of discretionary grants. we propose to trim discretionary project grants to the benefit of formula-based grants.we investigate the impact of cfo gender on cfo compensation and earnings management in australia. in a sample of exchange-listed firms from 2006 to 2010, we find a significant gender pay gap in cfo compensation but much of this pay gap dissipates when female cfos are matched using a propensity scoring method. female cfos tend to choose less risky remuneration packages with more cash and less non-cash component, with more salary and less bonus than their male peers. in addition, female cfos are more conservative and deliver higher reporting quality compared to male cfos. they engage substantially less in both accruals-based and real-based earnings management than their male counterparts. the difference in behavior of earnings management and in the selected compensation structures between male and female cfos can be possibly explained by the gender-based difference in personal risk preference.social identity theory suggests that people use social categories such as race and gender as the basis of interpersonal judgments and demonstrate biases favoring their ingroups, and that this discrimination against out-groups includes hiring and other personnel decisions. this research examines whether, in the context of other information, participants will use a person's religion and show typical intergroup biases often seen between racial groups. one hundred and seventy-five black christian participants viewed fictional job applicants of different religions (christian/muslim/atheist) and races (black/white). thirty-two percent of participants explicitly reported using the applicant's religion (but seldom reported using their race) as a source of evaluation and showed a consistent preference for christian (ingroup) over muslim and atheist (outgroup) applicants. in contrast, those who did not acknowledge using religion showed some racial ingroup bias but none for religion. this research has implications for workplace discrimination, hiring practices, and racial and religious group relations.driven by organizational focus on bottom-line profitability, business-to-business (b2b) sales managers face pressure to justify and control sales expenses. as cost information becomes more accessible, higher value may be placed on this information relative to revenue information to help alleviate this pressure. therefore, this study conceptualizes cost prioritization and argues that while bottom-line management gains may ensue, cost prioritization may also have unintended consequences for sales force engagement. therefore, this research examines the effect of managerial cost prioritization on sales force turnover. output control, behavior control, and micromanagement are identified as key factors impacting the relationship between cost prioritization and sales force turnover. empirical testing is based on a survey of b2b sales managers from various industries across the united states. results indicate cost prioritization increases sales force turnover. output control attenuates, while micromanagement exacerbates, this relationship. in addition, functional and dysfunctional turnover are differentially impacted by cost prioritization.the management of images projected to consumer audiences is a key task for sport service organisations; however, the number of “touch points” (interactions between employees and consumers) adds complexity to the process. in this article, the authors present a conceptual model of organisational impression congruence (orgic), proposing that organisations will elicit positive consumer-related outcomes if there is alignment between the desired organisational image(s), those projected by the organisation at the management/strategic level, and those projected by customer-facing employees. the conceptual model is underpinned by theories associated with impression management, reputation (as an outcome of impression management action), and cognitive dissonance theory as the basis for outcomes of in/congruence. the authors discuss possible implications and outcomes in relation to previous literature emanating from various fields (e.g., sport management, management, and marketing), and suggest directions for future research. through the model of orgic, the authors contribute to theoretical development and discussion, and provide a tool that could be useful for evaluating the way that sport service organisations present themselves to consumers, and other external audiences.across six studies, we examine how the magnitude of expressed happiness influences social perception and interpersonal behavior. we find that happiness evokes different judgments when expressed at high levels than when expressed at moderate levels, and that these judgments influence opportunistic behavior. specifically, people perceive very happy individuals to be more naïve than moderately happy individuals. these perceptions reflect the belief that very happy individuals shelter themselves from negative information about the world. as a result of these inferences, very happy people, relative to moderately happy people, are more likely to receive biased advice from advisors with a conflict of interest and are more likely to be chosen as negotiation partners when the opportunity for exploitation is salient. our findings challenge existing assumptions in organizational behavior and psychology by identifying a significant disadvantage of expressing happiness, and underscore the importance of examining emotional expressions at different magnitudes. we call for future work to explore how the same emotion, experienced or expressed at different levels, influences judgment and behavior.we show that within the same age cohort, growth rates of young firms are strongly increasing in firm size. this robust empirical pattern is confined to the initial years after entry; in line with previous studies, we find that growth rates become independent of size as a cohort matures. both the initial pattern and the subsequent convergence are consistent with the framework of the passive learning model if young firms adjust their size only slowly to new information, for example due to financing or hiring frictions. importantly, we focus our analysis on firms that enter denovo, i.e. newly registered firms that start new operations and hire their first employee. using two state-of-the-art record linking methods, we distinguish them from pre-existing companies that merely re-register as a new firm, for example following an id change or merger. the extremely narrow size distribution that we observe for denovo entrants provides further support for the passive learning model.a consistent empirical literature shows that in many organizations supervisors systematically overrate their employees’ performance. such leniency bias is at odds with the standard principal-agent model and has been explained with causes that range from social interactions to fairness concerns and to collusive behavior between the supervisor and the agent. we show that the principal-agent model, extended to consider loss-aversion and reference-dependent preferences, predicts that the leniency bias is comparatively less detrimental to effort provision than the severity bias. we test this prediction with a laboratory experiment where we demonstrate that failing to reward deserving agents is significantly more detrimental than rewarding undeserving agents. this offers a novel explanation as to why supervisors tend to be lenient in their appraisals.measures of self-efficacy beliefs have been shown to be the best predictor of individual performance in many disciplines over 30years. this makes measures of perceived self-efficacy a good indicator for those interested in hiring for, or improving specific skill sets. in project management, measuring the skill level of project managers is an important practical and academic question. practically, hiring managers and program managers, needs an indicator of performance to help select the most appropriate project managers for each project. academically, a common, established scale to measure project management self-efficacy would provide a tool for improving project management training and education, and increasing the comparability of research results across samples, industries and project results. this paper presents the construction and validation of a set of domain-specific, project management self-efficacy scales and provides evidence of its ability to predict project performance.interdisciplinary research is often essential to develop the integrated systems understanding needed to manage complex environmental issues that are faced by decision-makers world-wide. the scientific, institutional and funding challenges to interdisciplinary research have been the subject of considerable discussion. funders remain willing to support such research and to evaluate its impact. in this paper, we develop and apply a set of review concepts to systematically evaluate a large interdisciplinary research project. the project was conducted at a national research organisation that seeks to facilitate interdisciplinary integration. we categorise evaluation concepts as process- and outcome-related and propose five practical management interventions to bridge the concepts to improve interdisciplinary integration. these management interventions are: agree on a conceptual model, incorporate independent review, support synthesisers, foster intra-project communication, and build-in organisational learning. we end with reflections on lessons for the structure of research organisations and of the research team to develop effective interdisciplinary research as well as providing a set of recommendations for interdisciplinary research funders.overconfidence is an important bias related to the ability to recognize the limits of one’s knowledge. the present study examines overconfidence in predictions of job performance for participants presented with information about candidates based solely on standardized tests versus those who also were presented with unstructured interview information. we conducted two studies with individuals responsible for hiring decisions. results showed that individuals presented with interview information exhibited more overconfidence than individuals presented with test scores only. in a third study, consisting of a betting competition for undergraduate students, larger overconfidence was related to fewer payoffs. these combined results emphasize the importance of studying confidence and decision-related variables in selection decisions. furthermore, while previous research has shown that the predictive validity of unstructured interviews is low, this study provides compelling evidence that they not only fail to help personnel selection decisions, but can actually hurt them.we investigate experimentally the impact of quota policies on gender discrimination in hiring decisions by testing whether affirmative action increases female employment. we also ask whether firm performance is affected by such policies. our experiment consists of three treatments. in the baseline (no quota) treatment, groups of two employers and six potential job candidates are formed. employers have to hire two workers based on information on candidate characteristics including gender and years and subject of study. the second, low penalty, treatment is identical to the baseline except there is a quota such that at least half of the employees hired must be women. if this quota is not respected, the firm has to pay a penalty. the last, high penalty, treatment is the same as the low penalty treatment except that the penalty is significantly higher. we find that women are ranked unfavorably in the absence of a quota, and the introduction of a quota significantly reduces gender discrimination. firm performance is not affected by the introduction of quotas.this article is an updated version of the previous edition article by yin paradies, david r. williams, volume 5, pp. 474–483, © 2008, elsevier inc.this paper studies the effect of teacher gender and ethnicity on student evaluations of teaching at university. we analyze a unique data-set featuring mixed teaching teams and a diverse, multicultural, multi-ethnic group of students and teachers. blended co-teaching allows us to study the link between student evaluations of teaching and teacher gender as well as ethnicity exploiting within course variation in a panel data model with course-year fixed effects. we document a negative effect of being a female teacher on student evaluations of teaching, which amounts to roughly one fourth of the sample standard deviation of teaching scores. overall women are 11 percentage points less likely to attain the teaching evaluation cut-off for promotion to associate professor compared to men. the effect is robust to a host of co-variates such as course leadership, teacher experience and research quality, as well as an alternative teacher fixed effect specification. there is no evidence of a corresponding ethnicity effect. our results are suggestive of a gender bias against female teachers and indicate that the use of teaching evaluations in hiring and promotion decisions may put female lectures at a disadvantage.this article describes advances in the study of knowledge transfer in organizations over the fifteen years since argote and ingram (2000) appeared in organizational behavior and human decision processes. argote and ingram developed mechanisms of knowledge transfer and discussed factors that facilitate or impede transfer. conditions under which knowledge transfer improves organizational performance were identified and conditions under which knowledge transfer is a source of competitive advantage for organizations were theorized. the current article concludes that research subsequent to the publication of argote and ingram has both increased the depth of our understanding of knowledge transfer and broadened the factors considered as predictors and consequences of transfer. challenges to studying knowledge transfer, primarily in the area of measurement, are described, and new measurement approaches are discussed. we conclude with a discussion of future research directions that are likely to be productive and suggest that expanding the study of knowledge transfer to new problem domains, such as entrepreneurship, would advance knowledge of those domains as well as increase understanding of knowledge transfer.we integrated two research traditions – one focusing on analogical reasoning, the other on knowledge sharing – with the aim of examining how designers' unique knowledge backgrounds can fuel analogy-based creativity. the present dataset afforded a unique opportunity to pursue this aim since the design dialogue derived from team members with highly disparate educational backgrounds. our analyses revealed that analogies that matched (versus mismatched) educational backgrounds were generated and revisited more frequently, presumably because they were more accessible. matching analogies were also associated with increased epistemic uncertainty, perhaps because domain experts appreciate the challenge of mapping such analogies between domains. our findings support claims from the knowledge-sharing literature for a direct route from knowledge diversity through analogical reasoning to novel idea production.we interview both parents and their children enrolled in six primary schools in the district of treviso (italy). we study the structural differences between the children network of friends reported by children and the one elicited asking their parents. we find that the parent-reported network has a bias that is consistent with the following explanation: parents expect peer effects on school achievement to be stronger than what they really are. thus, parents of low-performing students report their children to be friends of high-performing students. our numerical simulations indicate that when this bias is combined with a bias on how some children target friends, then there is a multiplier effect on the expected school achievement.social psychology's current crisis has prompted calls for larger samples and more replications. building on sakaluk's (in this issue) distinction between exploration and confirmation, i argue that this shift will increase correctness of findings, but at the expense of exploration and discovery. the likely effects on the field include aversion to risk, increased difficulty in building careers and hence more capricious hiring and promotion policies, loss of interdisciplinary influence, and rising interest in small, weak findings. winners (who stand to gain from the mooted changes) include researchers with the patience and requisite resources to assemble large samples; incompetent experimenters; destructive iconoclasts; competing subfields of psychology; and lower-ranked journals, insofar as they publish creative work with small samples. the losers are young researchers; writers of literature reviews and textbooks; flamboyant, creative researchers with lesser levels of patience; and researchers at small colleges. my position is that the field has actually done quite well in recent decades, and improvement should be undertaken as further refinement of a successful approach, in contrast to the cassandrian view that the field's body of knowledge is hopelessly flawed and radical, revolutionary change is needed. i recommend we retain the exploratory research approach alongside the new, large-sample confirmatory work.the role of human capital has received considerable attention in research on small and medium sized firms. however, much uncertainty remains as to how practices that enhance human resources (hr) affect the performance of small and medium sized firms, whether some practices have stronger effects than others, and which contingencies influence these effects. relying on the framework proposed by subramony (2009), we propose that small and medium sized firms need to implement hr practices that focus on enhancing skills, motivation, and empowerment. the results of our meta-analysis comprising 56 studies that focused on small and medium sized enterprises (sme) indicated that hr-enhancing practices are correlated with firm performance (r
                     c
                     =.228). moreover, hr-enhancing practices were more relevant for young firms and sme operating in high-tech industries and in country contexts characterized by rigid labor regulations. we compare the results of this meta-analysis with meta-analyses performed in the large firm context. overall, our results suggest that hr-enhancing practices are important in the sme context in general and, moreover, they specify whether or not these practices have to be adapted to the sme context.prior research shows that increasing the breadth of elements used to create a firm's innovations can improve its ability to successfully introduce innovations. yet, our understanding of the antecedents of innovation breadth is limited. this study investigates how competition affects product managers' decision to expand the breadth of elements used to create an innovation. i build on the awareness–motivation–capability (amc) framework to propose that inter-firm competition from rivals' innovations and intra-firm competition from a firm's own innovations both create pressures for product managers to increase innovation breadth, but that the greater awareness and motivation resulting from internal competition will lead managers to increase innovation breadth more in response to intra-firm competition. i find support for these propositions based on a longitudinal examination of mutual fund innovations. this study offers contributions by developing theory about how competition shapes managers' decision to expand the diversity of elements used to develop an innovation.given the growing practice of social recruiting, this study is an investigation of how job applicant assessment on social media differs based on recruiter characteristics. in particular, this study touches upon how the assessment of both non-professional and professional categories of content on job applicants' social media differs by recruiters' gender and national culture, and whether these characteristics and how recruiters view non-professional content on social media are associated with the recruiters' perceived tendency to exclude applicants from the recruitment process. the theoretical foundations of this study were based on the selectivity model and the existing literature on national culture. the analysis of data collected from 256 italian and dutch recruiters using ancova and logistic regression indicated that the assessment of job candidates' non-professional content differed by recruiters' culture but not by their gender, whereas the assessment of job candidates' professional content on social media differed by recruiters' gender but not by their culture. factors related to the recruiters' perceived tendency to exclude candidates from the recruitment process were also identified. the findings of this study provide practical implications for recruiters and job seekers, and present new suggestions for future research.in linear regression, a multivariate sample-selection scheme often applies to the dependent variable, which results in missing observations on the variable. this induces the sample-selection bias, i.e. a standard regression analysis using only the selected cases leads to biased results. to solve the bias problem, in this paper, we propose a class of multivariate selection regression models by extending classic heckman model to allow for multivariate sample-selection scheme and robustness against departures from normality. necessary theories for building a formal bias correction procedure, based upon the proposed model, are obtained, and an efficient estimation method for the model is provided. simulation results and a real data example are presented to demonstrate the performance of the estimation method and practical usefulness of the multivariate sample-selection models.common method variance has received much attention in the behavioral sciences. nonetheless, scant scholarly effort has been invested in handling common method variance in hospitality research. this study investigates the current status of controlling for common method variance in hospitality research and assists researchers in taking appropriate actions. study 1 shows hospitality researchers’ endeavors to control for common method bias through a critical review of literature published in four leading hospitality journals in the ten years from 2006 to 2015: international journal of hospitality management, journal of hospitality & tourism research, cornell hospitality quarterly and international journal of contemporary hospitality management. in study 2, empirical investigations examine the effectiveness of a procedural remedy (temporal separation) and a statistical control (an unmeasured method factor approach) with two independent samples. the results of study 1 reveal that most survey-related publications in the four journals fail to address or acknowledge common method variance. moreover, only a limited number of techniques is found to be used to control for method variance. the findings of study 2 suggest that temporal separation with a time lag of one day leads to a weak control for method variance; however, the use of an unmeasured method factor significantly helps control for method variance in the model.this study examined the possible mediating role of self-stigma in the relationship between perceived public stigma and psychosocial outcomes and how this mechanism may be contingent on illness severity in a non-western (chinese) sample. a total of 251 participants, namely 151 psychiatric outpatients with psychotic disorders and 100 psychiatric outpatients without psychotic disorders, completed a questionnaire on stigma and psychosocial outcomes that covered topics such as self-esteem, depressive symptoms, and subjective quality of life (qol). using a cross-sectional design, ordinary least squares regression and bootstrapping mediation analyses were used to test whether self-stigma mediated the relationship between perceived public stigma and psychosocial outcomes and whether this mediating process was moderated by diagnostic status. the results indicated that self-stigma mediated the effect of perceived public stigma on psychosocial outcomes such as self-esteem, depressive symptoms, and subjective qol among both patients with psychotic disorders and those without psychotic disorders after controlling for demographic and clinical characteristics. further, moderated mediation analyses revealed that the indirect effect of perceived public stigma on psychosocial outcomes were not moderated by the status of psychotic diagnoses. self-stigma might be an essential and tractable target for interventions aimed at breaking the vicious cycle of discrimination and stigmatization toward people with mental illness regardless of their diagnoses.this study uses data from the national longitudinal study of adolescent to adult health (add health) to (1) replicate research that documents a positive association between physical attractiveness and income; (2) examine whether the returns to attractiveness differ for women and men; and 3) explore the role that grooming plays in the attractiveness-income relationship. we find that attractive individuals earn roughly 20 percent more than people of average attractiveness, but this gap is reduced when controlling for grooming, suggesting that the beauty premium can be actively cultivated. further, while both conventional wisdom and previous research suggest the importance of attractiveness might vary by gender, we find no gender differences in the attractiveness gradient. however, we do find that grooming accounts for the entire attractiveness premium for women, and only half of the premium for men. our findings underscore the social construction of attractiveness, and in doing so illuminate a key mechanism for attractiveness premia that varies by gender.pour répondre aux pressions et aux impératifs du marché et du monde du travail, les entreprises sont de plus en plus invitées à tenir compte de l’appariement personne-organisation basé sur la congruence des valeurs notamment dans leurs activités de recrutement et sélection du personnel. or, les moyens pour y arriver sont peu nombreux et souvent méconnus. cet article présente un certain nombre de pratiques concrètes pour mesurer et tenir compte de l’appariement personne-organisation, dont les tests d’appariement.
               
                  in order to address the market and workforce pressures and obligations, many organizations are now turning to person-organization fit (p-o fit) based on value congruence for their recruitment and selection activities. however, the various ways to ensure p-o fit are not very well known. this article presents concrete practices to measure and take into account p-o fit in selection, one of which is testing.work–life practices are frequently suggested as a strategy for improving women's representation in management. we predicted that work–life practices would increase the proportion of women in management, but their impact would be most evident when the workforce gender composition makes gender stereotypes less salient. hierarchical multiple regression was used to analyze the relationship between work–life practices in 2002–2006 and the proportion of women in management in 2010, 2012, and 2014. overall, work–life practices had a positive effect on the proportion of women in management, but only after an eight-year lag. however, this positive effect was not observed in organizations that were highly male-dominated. leave arrangements and direct provision of services (e.g., childcare or eldercare) had the strongest associations with women in management. our findings demonstrate the value of work–life practices in improving women's representation in management, but the effect is not immediate and does not operate across all organizational contexts.a significant amount of the research on two types of biases against women leaders—agentic deficiency (perceptions that women have minimal leadership potential) and agentic penalty (backlash for counter-stereotypical behavior)—has generally presumed that the descriptive, prescriptive, and proscriptive stereotypes on which the biases are based are comparable for women across racial groups. we propose that the degree to which agentic deficiencies and penalties occur is contingent on the dimension of agency that is under consideration and its relation to the stereotypes associated with the target's gendered and racial group. the results of our literature review and analysis suggest that when considered in the context of gender and leadership research, at least two dimensions of agency, competence and dominance, closely align with perceptions of agentic deficiency and agentic penalty, respectively. based on our analysis and the prevalent stereotypes of black and asian american women that are likely most relevant to the two types of biases against women leaders, we examined the interactive effects of racial stereotypes and the agentic biases. we suggest that when specific racial and gendered stereotypes are aligned with a specific dimension of agency, we can gain a more thorough understanding of how agentic biases may hinder women's progression to leadership positions.the job interview is one of the most widely used assessment tools in the selection process. despite its popularity in practice, interview outcomes can be prone to bias. although our knowledge of stigmatizing applicant characteristics that elicit subgroup differences has grown exponentially, research continuously highlights the need for a framework underlying interview bias. this paper proposes a framework for interview bias based on the dual-process theory, which is a widely applicable theoretical framework that has influenced research on social interactions, information processing, and decision making. specifically, we investigate how stigmatizing applicant characteristics affect interviewers' information processing during the three main stages of the interview (i.e., pre-interview, interview, decision making), we discuss situational and interviewer factors as moderators, and describe the impact on interview outcomes (like interview bias). building on the dual-process theory, we formulate key propositions, related to each of the interview stages. finally, we discuss the implications of this framework for future interview and stigma research and for organizations' interviewing practice.women are still not progressing into executive, ceo or board roles in substantial numbers. we argue that gendered forces operating at societal, organizational, and individual levels inhibit the accumulation of valuable career capital. these forces, typically in combination across a variety of contexts in the life-cycle, create substantial and cumulative limitations upon the ability of women to access and to accumulate the capital required to progress into executive roles in firms. we define this valuable capital for the role of the senior executive and explore the timing and interplay of critical forces that limit the acquisition and development of valuable capital for women. in particular, it is proposed that these forces can be mitigated by the corporate elite who, as board chairs and ceos, can enhance the ability of middle and senior female managers to access and to acquire the additional valuable career capital required to progress to executive leadership roles.in an attempt to explain why the gender gap in leadership positions persists, we propose a model centered on legitimacy. when women hold powerful positions, they have a harder time than men eliciting respect and admiration (i.e., status) from subordinates. as a result, female power-holders are seen as less legitimate than male power-holders. unless they are able to legitimize their role, relative illegitimacy will prompt a variety of consequences such as more negative subordinate behavior and reduced cooperation when the leader is a woman. subordinate rejection will likely put female leaders in a precarious mindset, and trigger negative responses toward subordinates; such behavior can confirm negative expectations of female leaders and further undermine female authority in a self-reinforcing cycle of illegitimacy. leader or organizational features that enhance status attributions and/or lower subordinates' perceptions of power differentials may increase legitimacy for women in leadership roles.we examine whether accounting academics on the board of directors affect their firm's financial reporting quality. while regulations mandate firms to include financial experts as outside directors to enhance transparency, there is also a shortage of suitable individuals with both the relevant expertise and the appropriate management and communication skills. although increasing evidence suggests that academics as outside directors improve firm performance, previous studies do not focus on the role of accounting professors per se on accounting quality. the prevalence of hiring academics as outside directors renders china a suitable research setting. we observe greater value relevance of reported earnings when accounting academics serve as financial experts in the board, especially in firms where their influence is expected to be more pronounced. our evidence implies that accounting scholarship contributes to the efficiency of the capital market, and can potentially supply the boardroom demand for financial experts.we examine whether chief financial officers (cfos) with accounting backgrounds (accountant cfos) are associated with more conservative corporate outcomes. we find that, in high-growth industries, firms with accountant cfos invest less in research and development and capital expenditures and are less likely to engage in external financing. in low-growth industries, we find that firms with accountant cfos exhibit greater cost efficiency. our results are consistent with risk aversion on the part of accountant cfos. we further document that accountant cfos are negatively associated with firm value in high-growth industries and positively associated with firm value in low-growth industries.this study integrates the contradictory predictions of human-capital and social-network perspectives about the relationship between executives’ international experience and speed of career advancement. we postulate that these perspectives are rather complementary, and that the relationship between international experience and time to the top follows a u-shaped form. initially, the acquisition of international experience speeds-up executives’ career progress until a threshold where the social-network costs of cross-country mobility outweigh the human-capital benefits. our results support the u-shaped relationship. they also show that this relationship is influenced by factors at different layers of context—suggesting that contextual aspects play an important, contingent role.self-report personality tests are used widely, but it is not uncommon for an individual’s scale score to be invalid due to socially desirable responding (sdr): answering to be viewed favourably. various indices exist to detect sdr (e.g., faking). the marlowe–crowne social desirability scale (mcsds) formerly was the most popular. the current gold standard is the balanced inventory of desirable responding (bidr), considered more sensitive because its development incorporated newer theoretical and empirical understanding of sdr and more sophisticated multivariate techniques. we compare the efficacy of these measures with surprising results: the mcsds consistently outperforms the bidr in identifying fakers. this finding indicates that the mcsds should be retained because it captures elements of faking more effectively than the modern scale.social technologies are increasingly used in several organizational functions, including human resource management. the focus of this study is on social media adoption in employee recruitment and selection in central and eastern europe (cee). the theoretical lens used in this study is the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology (utaut), extended to include the impact of the recruiters' managerial position and educational level on technology adoption. results obtained from partial least squares path modeling, using cross-sectional data collected from 224 recruiters, showed that the core hypotheses of the utaut were supported, namely the positive impact of performance expectancy, effort expectancy and social influence on behavioral intention, as well as the positive impact of facilitating conditions and behavioral intention on usage behavior. as expected, the recruiters' characteristics triggered many interaction effects, but none of them impacted facilitating conditions. managerial implications are discussed and future research suggestions are provided.we seek to identify the key characteristics that allow some firms to acquire valuable entrepreneurial resources and others not to. this question is central to how firms are able to create and sustain a competitive advantage. the backdrop of this study is the phenomenon of dual tracking, which consists of the acquisition of entrepreneurial firms shortly after they undergo an initial public offering. the results reveal that firms that 1) are geographically proximate, 2) have prior ties with the target, and 3) are situated in the same industry as the target are more likely to engage in dual tracking than other firms. these results withstand several robustness checks.introduction
                  many efforts are invested in promoting healthy attitudes and behaviors; nonetheless there is no clear, definitive evidence of sustained effectiveness of those efforts in all cases.
               
                  objective
                  the present study examined the role of perceived attention in changing attitudes toward vegetable consumption as well as the perceived stability and resistance of those changes (attitude strength).
               
                  method
                  participants were randomly assigned to read a strong or weak health communication arguing in favor of vegetable consumption. after reading the message, participants reported attitudes toward this health issue, the perceived attention, and the perceived strength associated with their evaluations.
               
                  results
                  participants who reported high (vs. low) perceived attention showed a greater effect of argument quality on persuasion. furthermore, such participants also reported stronger attitudes compared to those who reported low perceived attention.
               
                  conclusion
                  this study showed that attitudes toward vegetable consumption can be changed after reading a persuasive message, and that the extent of perceived attention moderated the extent to which those changes were perceived as stable and resistant (stronger attitudes).this article contributes to the literature on knowledge transfer via labor mobility by providing new evidence regarding the role of educational diversity in knowledge transfer. in tracing worker flows between firms in denmark over the period 1995–2005, we find that knowledge carried by workers who have been previously exposed to educationally diverse workforces significantly increases the productivity of the hiring firms. several extensions of our baseline specification support this finding and confirm that our variable of interest affects the arrival firm's performance mainly through the knowledge transfer channel.this study has evaluated the relationship between debt in the capital structure of firms and the dynamics of broadband and digital technology adoption in the united states, based on a large dataset on local exchange carriers in the united states over a contemporary historical fourteen year period from 1988 to 2001. using treatment effects modeling, the impact of debt in impacting the levels of firms’ broadband deployment has been found to be negative and significant. the primary source of debt in the sector has been in the form of arm's-length corporate bonds and the assumptions of the monitoring hypothesis associated with such debt, that lenders, in the face of information and collective actions problems, might not be able to control managers and hence invest less in highly technology-intensive situations, are supported by the data. additionally, the data set has been split into separate sets for two periods, one between 1988 and 1995, for the period before the telecommunications act of 1996 came into force, and the other set between 1996 and 2001, and the results have stayed consistent. a test of the coefficients between the two periods has shown that the negative impact of leverage on broadband deployment has become stronger after the introduction of competition in the sector, and this has suggested that the change in the institutional logics between the two periods has been of material impact in influencing lenders’ perceptions.service providers have often used the mantra of “service with a smile” as a strategy to engender customer satisfaction. the findings of the current research indicate that a smile alone may not be sufficient in achieving service excellence. specifically, this work extends prior research suggesting that customers have more positive reactions to duchenne, or authentic, smiles compared to non-duchenne, or non-genuine, smiles. two experimental vignette studies examined the influence of the type of smile a service provider displays (duchenne vs. non-duchenne) and gender of the service provider on perceptions of service quality, as well as the stereotype content model dimensions of competence and warmth. the results suggest that the type of smile (duchenne vs. non-duchenne) impacts evaluations of service providers in terms of their perceived level of competence, as well as their perceived service quality ratings. implications for the hiring and training of service providers are also discussed.we develop a turnover-based model of organizational disruption in services to understand better how, when and why disruption occurs in order to guide future research. specifically, we examine how different types of turnover (e.g., total turnover, voluntary turnover, involuntary turnover and downsizing) influence important aspects of customer service (e.g., customer satisfaction, perceptions of service quality, and perceptions of service brand quality). we further explore many potential moderators (e.g., newcomer concentration and environmental complexity) and mediators (e.g., efficiency and customer orientation) of the relationship. we conclude by highlighting potentially fruitful directions for future research.this study examines financial literacy and its relationship with financial disputes. we devised two special modules from the third national financial literacy survey conducted by taiwan's financial supervisory commission (fsc) in 2011. with this unique database, we examine topics that have rarely been discussed in other studies. our empirical evidence suggests that people with a higher financial literacy are less likely to experience financial disputes. when the purchase of financial products and services leads to a financial dispute, people with a higher financial literacy will aggressively handle the problem. in addition, personal characteristics, such as gender, work status, and household income, are key factors affecting the chances of a financial dispute. finally, our results are robust to potential selection bias when we include the results of the national financial literacy survey conducted by the fsc in 2007, 2009, and 2011.social collaboration technologies have rapidly spread across organizations, offering a unique opportunity to improve the exchange of knowledge among employees, especially in distributed work environments. the increasing popularity of social-collaboration tools as an employee-oriented communication channel, inevitably raises questions about the future of email as its intensive use by knowledge workers is more and more perceived as being inefficient and unproductive. through a quantitative case study methodology, this study seeks to explore the role played by the notion of habit in explaining employee knowledge sharing capability for firms implementing social collaborative practices in the context of no-email initiatives. data collected within a large international it services company, which is among the first firms having made such shift, were used to test the developed conceptual model. the findings suggest that habit is positively influenced by relative advantage and perceived ease of use while relative advantage was found to positively impact knowledge sharing capability. besides, habit moderates the relationships between three attributes (relative advantage, perceived ease of use, and compatibility to a lesser extent) and knowledge sharing capability. theoretical and practical implications developed from these findings are then discussed.this chapter covers a descriptive project practitioner-centered knowledge model derived from experience in developing knowledge services (ks) at the national aeronautics and space administration (nasa). it involves an organizational knowledge systems perspective that better negotiates rapid change and accelerated learning in data-rich complex project environments. the authors discuss the modern project environment and cover the strategic imperatives that guide the design and development of a knowledge services (ks) model for individuals, teams, and organizations. the operational components of knowledge capture and retention, sharing and application, and discovery and creation are specified as core processes with individual and organizational inputs of capabilities and expectations. considerations for the design of ks at nasa are discussed, including governance, federated approach, mapping, biases and heuristics, and practitioner capabilities. a case study covering the james webb telescope is then used to illuminate the presented strategic imperatives and model, and the article closes with a summary and recommendations for future model application. this model allows organizations to validate and add imperatives within their context to better design knowledge services for diverse challenges and opportunities.thanks to extraordinary and exponential improvements in data storage and computing capacities, it is now possible to collect, manage, and analyze data in magnitudes and in manners that would have been inconceivable just a short time ago. as the world has developed this remarkable capacity to store and analyze data, so have the world's governments developed large-scale, comprehensive data files on tax programs, workforce information, benefit programs, health, and education. while these data are collected for purely administrative purposes, they represent remarkable new opportunities for expanding our knowledge. this chapter describes some of the benefits and challenges associated with the use of administrative data in education research. we also offer specific case studies of data that have been developed in both the nordic countries and the united states, and offer an (incomplete) inventory of data sets used by social scientists to study education questions on every inhabited continent on earth.the existence of warm, intimate, supportive, and egalitarian relationships between members of differing social outgroups is likely, at the societal level, to facilitate cooperation and cohesion, and at the individual level, to promote positive social, educational, and occupational outcomes. the developmental pathway from intergroup contact to intergroup attitudes as it operates among children is not, however, well understood. in our chapter, we review and integrate selected social and developmental science related to intergroup relations and attitudes with the goal of proposing a conceptual model of the pathway from intergroup contact to positive intergroup attitudes among youth.it is well-known that some students earn higher grades than others; however, published research on the mental abilities that are correlated with high school grades is sparse. two studies examined the relationship between different mental abilities and high school grades. study 1 showed that the personality trait conscientiousness predicted high school grades (r
                     =.32) almost as well as g (r
                     =.37 to .40). in study 2, the relationship between general mental ability (g) and high school grades was linear and fairness analyses indicated slight overprediction for hispanics and blacks and underprediction for females. validity was lowered slightly by group preferences. with the exception of mathematical knowledge, the correlation between mental abilities and high school grades in both studies was largely attributable to g rather than specific abilities (s) measured by each test. additional analyses showed that grade point averages are reliable and conscientiousness and g do not interact when predicting high school grades.in many organizations the measurement of job performance cannot rely on easily quantifiable information. in such cases, supervising managers often use subjective performance evaluations. we use laboratory experiments to study whether the way employees are assigned to a manager affects managers’ and co-employees’ subjective evaluations of employees. employees can either be hired by the manager, explicitly not hired by him and nevertheless assigned to him or exogenously assigned to him. we present data from three different treatments. for all three treatments we find escalation bias by managers. managers exhibit a positive bias towards those employees they have hired or a negative one towards those they have explicitly not hired. for three treatments we find that managers’ and employees’ biases are connected. exogenously assigned employees are biased in favor of employees hired by the manager and against those explicitly not hired.clinical trials have traditionally followed a fixed design, in which randomization probabilities of patients to various treatments remains fixed throughout the trial and specified in the protocol. the primary goal of this static design is to learn about the efficacy of treatments. response-adaptive designs, on the other hand, allow clinicians to use the learning about treatment effectiveness to dynamically adjust randomization probabilities of patients to various treatments as the trial progresses. an ideal adaptive design is one where patients are treated as effectively as possible without sacrificing the potential learning or compromising the integrity of the trial. we propose such a design, termed jointly adaptive, that uses forward-looking algorithms to fully exploit learning from multiple patients simultaneously. compared to the best existing implementable adaptive design that employs a multiarmed bandit framework in a setting where multiple patients arrive sequentially, we show that our proposed design improves health outcomes of patients in the trial by up to 8.6 percent, in expectation, under a set of considered scenarios. further, we demonstrate our design’s effectiveness using data from a recently conducted stent trial. this paper also adds to the general understanding of such models by showing the value and nature of improvements over heuristic solutions for problems with short delays in observing patient outcomes. we do this by showing the relative performance of these schemes for maximum expected patient health and maximum expected learning objectives, and by demonstrating the value of a restricted-optimal-policy approximation in a practical example.a recent supreme court decision — texas department of housing and community affairs v. inclusive communities project, inc. — creates an opening to consider models for repairing the effects of unintended harm. we mention some results from the science of unconscious bias, consider the nature of n-to-n harm, cite recent philosophical arguments about responsibility for carrying implicit bias, and note the legal status of intent versus impact in civil rights law. based on the opportunity presented by inclusive communities, we present three options for repairing unintended harm, placing emphasis on litigation-minimizing solutions, especially insurance.positive associations between physical attractiveness and employee reward are well-documented within the organisational literature. although the impact of facial cues to trustworthiness and dominance on a number of social outcomes has been established outside of the workplace, the extent to which they, in addition to attractiveness, affect pay at different managerial levels is yet to be investigated. this paper presents research into this issue using a face payment task for shop floor managers (retail managers) and senior managers (heads of retail operations). evaluations indicated that all three facial cues were positively associated with awarded pay at both managerial levels. moreover, attractiveness had a significantly stronger link with shop-floor managers' than senior managers' pay, whereas perceived trustworthiness and perceived dominance had significantly stronger links with pay for senior managers than shop-floor managers. it further emerged that women were paid more in this experimental task where pay was awarded solely based on facial features and that the facial features were more predictive of women's than men's pay. awareness of the role of physical cues in pay awards can be considered by organisations to reduce biases in remuneration.in this study we elicit employers’ preferences for a variety of cv attributes and types of skills when recruiting university graduates. using two discrete choice experiments, we simulate the two common steps of the graduate recruitment process: (1) the selection of suitable candidates for job interviews based on cvs, and (2) the hiring of graduates based on observed skills. we show that in the first step, employers attach most value to cv attributes which signal a high stock of occupation-specific human capital indicating low training costs and short adjustment periods; attributes such as relevant work experience and a good match between the field of study and the job tasks. in line with the preferences in the first step, employers’ actual hiring decision is mostly influenced by graduates’ level of professional expertise and interpersonal skills. other types of skills also play a role in the hiring decision but are less important, and can therefore not easily compensate for a lack of occupation-specific human capital and interpersonal skills.team heterogeneity research has been traditionally dominated by atomistic or single-culture assumptions. this study extends this stream by investigating the influences of cooperation and culture on the link between leader–member skill distance (one special type of team heterogeneity) and team performance. building upon input-process-output framework from the perspective of individualist and collectivist cultures, we propose that the association between leader–member skill distance and team performance has an inverted-u shape in individualist cultures. further, in such cultures, team cooperation can augment the positive effect of leader–member skill distance on team performance. in contrast, in collectivist cultures, the association between leader–member skill distance and team performance has a monotonic and positive shape, and team cooperation will attenuate the positive effect of leader–member skill distance on team performance. we find the empirical support for our views with a mixed-methods design: a qualitative study interviewing informants in different cultures to clarify the psychological mechanisms, and also a quantitative study analyzing the data from us’s national basketball association (nba) and china basketball association (cba).this paper studies the relationship between a microfinance institution (mfi) and its loan officers when officers discriminate against a particular group of micro-entrepreneurs. using survey data from uganda, we provide evidence that loan officers are more biased than other employees against disabled micro-entrepreneurs. in line with the evidence, we build an agency model of a non-profit mfi and a biased loan officer in charge of granting loans. since incentive schemes are costly and the mfi's budget is limited, the mfi faces a trade-off between combating discrimination and granting loans. we show that the optimal incentive premium is a non-decreasing function of the mfi's budget. moreover, even a non-discriminatory welfare-maximizing mfi may let its loan officer discriminate, because eradicating discrimination would come at the cost of too many loans. observing an mfi's loan allocation biased against a minority group therefore does not imply that the institution is biased against this group.will individuals’ social networking influence their judgments and related psychological processes on tasks in remote, unrelated domains? this research examines downstream spillover effects that social networking experiences may have on individuals’ risk-related judgment and behavior. building on the feelings-as-information paradigm, we propose that individuals who engage in initiating new ties or contacts will subsequently behave in a more risk-averse manner than those who engage in cementing existing relationships. initiating new ties generates more intense feelings that individuals have taken a risk, compared to cementing existing ties. consequently, initiating new ties produces the tendency to balance out feelings of risk across unrelated domains. in four studies, we confirm the effect of social networking on subsequent risk judgment and the role of feelings of risk as its underlying process.the decision making ecology provided a framework for empirically testing the impact of case, caseworker and organizational factors on the decision to place children in out-of-home care. the structural equation model we developed fit the data extremely well, indicating a complex relationship between the variables. the main findings indicate that case factors, even as aggregated to the worker level, were of most importance: percent removed was increased in part by greater average risk being assessed and more families on a worker's caseload being low income. furthermore, removal rates were increased by lower proportions of hispanic families on the caseload, as well as lower organizational support, and a perception of manageable workload and sufficient resources. individual factors, i.e., variables characterizing the caseworkers themselves, were not found to directly influence the placement decision, including workers’ own race/ethnicity, though various orders of mediated effects were indicated, and these are detailed. interrelationships between variables that affect case, caseworker and organizational factors are discussed along with implications for practice.we use an application-files experimental design to investigate a new topic in the assessment of candidates for junior-engineering jobs. our focus is on two semi-finalists, a man and a woman, who show clearly different but still good levels of academic record. we keep the gap between those levels constant, but vary the sex category of the better performer. we also include control conditions in which the two have similar records. each assessor’s task was to choose either one applicant or neither, and to rate both in competence and suitability. the control-group competence ratings indicate no gender bias by either men or women; the experimental-conditions competence data are consistent with the candidates’ records as predicted, but also show women minimizing the record of the better-performing male candidate. choice and suitability, on the other hand, reveal a preference for the female applicant across respondents and conditions, as anticipated given the more open nature of those two questions, while still reflecting the academic records. findings and their interpretation are presented in detail.the emergence of online labor platforms, online crowdsourcing sites, and even massive open online courses (moocs), has created an increasing need for reliably evaluating the skills of the participating users (e.g., “does a candidate know java”) in a scalable way. many platforms already allow job candidates to take online tests to assess their competence in a variety of technical topics. however the existing approaches face many problems. first, cheating is very common in online testing without supervision, as the test questions often “leak” and become easily available online along with the answers. second, technical-skills, such as programming, require the tests to be frequently updated in order to reflect the current state-of-the-art. third, there is very limited evaluation of the tests themselves, and how effectively they measure the skill that the users are tested for.
                  in this article we present a platform, which continuously generates test questions and evaluates their quality as predictors of the user skill level. our platform leverages content that is already available on question answering sites such as stack overflow and re-purposes these questions to generate tests. this approach has some major benefits: we continuously generate new questions, decreasing the impact of cheating, and we also create questions that are closer to the real problems that the skill holder is expected to solve in real life. our platform leverages the use of item response theory to evaluate the quality of the questions. we also use external signals about the quality of the workers to examine the external validity of the generated test questions: questions that have external validity also have a strong predictive ability for identifying early the workers that have the potential to succeed in the online job marketplaces. our experimental evaluation shows that our system generates questions of comparable or higher quality compared to existing tests, with a cost of approximately $3–$5 dollars per question, which is lower than the cost of licensing questions from existing test banks, and an order of magnitude lower than the cost of producing such questions from scratch using experts.the role, effectiveness and credibility of the marketing function within a firm have been the focus of scholarly research and practitioners’ attention in marketing, and both researchers and practitioners argue that the marketing department’s reputation has been besmirched in recent years. this study makes an initial attempt to empirically investigate antecedents and consequences of the marketing department’s reputation within the firm. we put forward the notion that the marketing department’s reputation is a key factor in the junction of the departmental influence and power-oriented research streams. the results indicate that the customer connection capability, accountability and status of the marketing department are positively related to its reputation in the firm. conversely, the variable of the resources controlled by marketing is negatively associated with the department’s reputation. the results further show that a reputable marketing department is associated with improved market performance regardless of the generic strategy pursued by the firm. development of departmental capabilities is vital for marketing to be a respected department in the organization. marketers also have to build favorable perceptions on and beyond their capabilities within the firm and upper echelons.this study draws on research derived from role congruity theory (rct) and the status incongruity hypothesis (sih) to test the prediction that male leaders who seek help will be evaluated as less competent than male leaders who do not seek help. in a field setting, study 1 showed that seeking help was negatively related to perceived competence for male (but not female) leaders. in an experimental setting, study 2 showed that this effect was not moderated by leadership style (study 2a) or a gender-specific context (study 2b). study 2b further showed that the cognitive tenets of rct rather than the motivational view espoused by the sih explained our findings. specifically, leader typicality (perceptions of help seeking as an atypical behavior for male leaders; the rct view), and not leader weakness (a proscribed behavior for male leaders; the sih view), mediated our predicted moderation.citation metrics are becoming pervasive in the quantitative evaluation of scholars, journals, and institutions. hiring, promotion, and funding decisions increasingly rely on a variety of impact metrics that cannot disentangle quality from quantity of scientific output, and are biased by factors such as discipline and academic age. biases affecting the evaluation of single papers are compounded when one aggregates citation-based metrics across an entire publication record. it is not trivial to compare the quality of two scholars that during their careers have published at different rates, in different disciplines, and in different periods of time. here we evaluate a method based on the generation of a statistical baseline specifically tailored on the academic profile of each researcher. we demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach in decoupling the roles of quantity and quality of publications to explain how a certain level of impact is achieved. the method can be extended to simultaneously suppress any source of bias. as an illustration, we use it to capture the quality of the work of nobel laureates irrespective of number of publications, academic age, and discipline, even when traditional metrics indicate low impact in absolute terms. the procedure is flexible enough to allow for the evaluation of, and fair comparison among, arbitrary collections of papers – scholar publication records, journals, and institutions; in fact, it extends a similar technique that was previously applied to the ranking of research units and countries in specific disciplines (crespo, ortuño-ortí, & ruiz-castillo, 2012). we further apply the methodology to almost a million scholars and over six thousand journals to measure the impact that cannot be explained by the volume of publications alone.computer applications have become indispensable work tools in most organizations. as a consequence, software engineering abilities are desired skills for many employees. therefore, the study explored individual differences predicting programming aptitude. a meta-analysis on 19 independent samples (total n
                     =1695) highlighted that programming aptitude was associated with three personality traits, conscientiousness, openness, and introversion. moreover, the three traits explained incremental variance components beyond general mental abilities. in contrast to stereotypical beliefs, programming aptitudes were not associated with socially undesirable traits such as disagreeableness or neuroticism.how do women leaders such as board members and top managers influence the social performance of organizations? this paper addresses the question by exploiting a unique database from a senegalese network of 36 financial cooperatives. we scrutinize the loan-granting decisions, made jointly by the locally elected board and the top manager assigned by the central union of the network. our findings are threefold. first, female-dominated boards favor social orientation. second, female managers tend to align their strategy with local boards’ preferences. third, the central union tends to assign male managers to female-dominated boards, probably to curb the boards’ social orientation.aging workers experience the longest unemployment spells of any segment of the labor force and are much more likely than their younger counterparts to drop out of employment entirely. yet, we still know little about aging workers’ struggles to regain employment following job loss. do they see themselves as structurally disadvantaged? and, what are the consequences for self-perceptions, notions of fairness, and even mental health? we fill this gap by drawing on 52 semi-structured qualitative interviews with workers aged 40–65 who lost jobs during the great recession and have been attempting to find work since. notable is their keen awareness of both age-specific labor market disadvantages and processes complicating re-employment for all unemployed workers during this period. respondents articulate sophisticated analyses of how employer biases, credentialism, the job search process, and changes in the economy present very real barriers to reemployment. these perceptions and experiences, our materials suggest, have far-reaching social-psychological consequences, including loss of belief in meritocracy within major institutions; questioning of self-worth; and feelings of isolation, hopelessness and depression—consequences to which stratification scholars should devote more attention, especially since many aging workers become discouraged and eventually drop out of the labor force.stock market investment decisions of individuals are positively correlated with those of coworkers. sorting of unobservably similar individuals to the same workplaces is unlikely to explain this pattern, as evidenced by the investment behavior of individuals who move between plants. purchases made under stronger coworker purchase activity are not associated with higher returns. moreover, social interaction appears to drive the purchase of within-industry stocks. overall, we find a strong influence of coworkers on investment choices, but not an influence that improves the quality of investment decisions.we propose a theoretical model of the linkages between the stigma of having a criminal history and perceptions of warmth and competence as related to hiring decisions about ex-offenders. our model suggests that characteristics related to the criminal offense and the ex-offender may influence hiring managers' perceptions of ex-offender job applicants, which in turn may either limit or enhance ex-offenders' ability to secure employment. furthermore, it suggests that factors pertaining to the hiring manager, job, organization, and government incentives moderate the relationships between hiring manager perceptions of the warmth and competence of ex-offender job applicants and their hiring decisions about these applicants. lastly, we acknowledge larger societal and organizational issues related to the lack of ex-offender hiring and discuss implications for research and practice.many regulators, rating agencies, executives and academics have advocated a new approach to risk management: enterprise risk management (erm). erm proposes the integrated management of all the risks an organization faces, which inherently requires alignment of risk management with corporate governance and strategy. academic research on erm is still in its infancy, with articles largely in accounting and finance journals but rarely in management journals. we argue that erm offers an important new research domain for management scholars. a critical review of erm research allows us to identify limitations and gaps that management scholars are best equipped to address. this paper not only identifies how management scholars can contribute to erm research, but also points out why erm research (and practice) needs management research for its development.past research notes the importance of emotions in the workplace. much less is known about the role that empathic concern, an affect-laden construct, plays in predicting a leader's career advancement using measures of one's upward mobility, such as career derailment potential. data provided by practicing managers in australia show that leaders who displayed behaviors that convey empathic concern receive lower ratings of career derailment potential. we also found that gender was a statistically significant moderator of these relationships. with boss rating of derailment potential as the outcome, the negative relationship between empathic concern and derailment potential was statistically significant for women only. with peer ratings of derailment potential as the outcome, the negative relationship between empathic concern and derailment potential was stronger for women than men. theoretical and practical implications are discussed.we design a laboratory experiment to test the extent to which the often-observed “beauty premium” – a positive relationship between attractiveness and wages – is context-specific. using three realistic worker tasks, we find that the existence of the “beauty premium” indeed depends on the task: while relatively more attractive workers receive higher wage bids in a bargaining task, there is no such premium in either an analytical task or a data entry task. our analysis shows that the premium in bargaining is driven by statistical discrimination based on biased beliefs about worker performance. we also find that there is substantial learning after worker-specific performance information is revealed, highlighting the importance of accounting for longer-run interactions in studies of discrimination.building on perspectives from corporate governance, resource dependence, and organizational learning, this paper investigates the ability of international returnees while acting as outside directors in corporate boards to influence strategic adaptation in the face of institutional pressure to adopt what are arguably more legitimate management practices. we empirically examine the restructuring efforts of large korean firms in the early 2000s following the introduction of radically new board regulations by the government. to accomplish this we use a hierarchical linear modeling with repeated measures. our results show that decreases in debt ratio and diversification level are greater for firms with more returnee outside directors. such an association is strengthened by the extent of foreign experience held by returnee directors. in addition, the prestige of individual directors as well as support from foreign investors positively moderates the impact of returnee outside directors on strategic adaptation.do narcissists really like other narcissists? although some research suggests that the answer is ‘yes,’ the current study demonstrates that the answer to this question is not so simple. in this study, participants (n
                     =370) completed a survey in which they responded on a measure of trait narcissism and then were randomly assigned to rate the likability of people who were described by either 13 narcissistic traits (abstract-trait description condition) or 13 behavioral manifestations of these traits (concrete-behavior description condition). results showed that narcissists (vs. non-narcissists) rated narcissistic others significantly more positively in the abstract-trait description condition, whereas this effect was non-significant (and slightly reversed) in the concrete-behavior description condition. interestingly, this interaction effect was not modified by the contextual salience of one’s own (non)narcissistic identity. in sum, the present research presents a case of ‘narcissistic hypocrisy’ – narcissists claim to be more forgiving of narcissistic traits but do not follow through with this claim when led to confront manifestations of these traits. this finding adds to a growing body of work examining narcissists’ attitudes toward narcissism.we use unique worker-plant matched panel data to measure differences in wage changes experienced by workers displaced from closing plants. we observe larger losses among women than men, comparing workers who move from the same closing plant to the same new firm. however, we find a significantly smaller gap in hiring firms with female leadership. the results are strongest among women who are displaced from male-led plants and from less competitive industries. our results suggest an important externality to having women in leadership positions: they cultivate more female-friendly cultures inside their firms.we forecast how hrm practice and hr research on fairness in the workplace will need to change in light of several specific global workplace trends, namely, increases in workplace diversity and globalization, technology mediated relationships, individualized psychological contracts, and service-related jobs. after describing these trends, we illustrate how the meaning of fairness and worker expectations regarding fairness may be changing in response. we further discuss how those changes will impact hr management.hirsch's (2005) h index has become one of the most popular indicators of research productivity for higher education faculty. however, the h index varies across academic disciplines so empirically established norms for each discipline are necessary. to that end, the current study collected h index values from scopus and google scholar databases for 401 tenure-track faculty members from 109 school psychology training programs. male faculty tended to be more senior than female faculty and a greater proportion of the male faculty held professorial rank. however, female faculty members outnumbered males at the assistant and associate professor ranks. although strongly correlated (rho
                     =.84), h index values from google scholar were higher than those from scopus. h index distributions were positively skewed with many faculty having low values and a few faculty having high values. faculty in doctoral training programs exhibited significantly larger h index values than faculty in specialist training programs and there were univariate differences in h index values across academic rank and sex, but sex differences were not significant after taking seniority into account. it was recommended that the h index be integrated with peer review and diverse other indicators when considering individual merit.this research looks at how the structural characteristics of network affect pressure of relational inertia and the behavior to share information through sns. also, we tested the moderating effect of the structural autonomy in network, the extent to which a user feels that ties of relationship can be managed in terms of holding important hubs in social network. the data were collected through online survey from 320 members of four online communities of two popular sns, facebook and kakaostory. the findings show that first of all, three out of four constructs we studied as a structural characteristic, cohesiveness, multiplexity, and syncopated complexity had positive impact on relational inertia, and also relational inertia was positively associated with the decrease of information sharing on sns. second, the users' structural autonomy on sns made the decrease of information sharing weaker and also moderated the relationship between relational inertia and decrease of information sharing. this study suggests that even sns, which enables the relationship building and information sharing through social networking, could bring negative effect depending on the structural characteristics of a user's social network. in this study, we also confirmed the value of structural autonomy on sns. actors can benefit from being linked to only the important ties on social network to obtain effective information and social capital from relationships.given the importance of individual differences in the study of applicant attraction to organizations, we conducted a meta-analysis to assess the relationship between both applicant deep-level characteristics (e.g., applicant ability, personality, and experience) and surface-level characteristics (e.g., race, gender, and age) with applicant attraction. results of our review of over 1700 articles (of which, 85 provided relevant data for our analysis) indicated that several relevant applicant individual differences are related to applicant attraction, independent of organizational influences. stronger effect sizes were found for applicant deep-level characteristics (versus surface level) as well as field studies (versus lab studies). extraversion and conscientiousness had the strongest positive relationships with applicant attraction, while applicant grade point average, as an indicator of ability, had the strongest negative relationship. the significance of these findings, including implications for applicants and organizations, is discussed.four experiments provide evidence for the hypothesis that we can “catch” racial bias from others by merely observing subtle nonverbal cues. video recordings were made of white participants (with varying levels of racial bias) interacting with a neutral black confederate. videos contained subtle expressions of positivity or negativity, corresponding to white participants’ levels of bias. participants randomly assigned to observe the subtle anti-black bias videos (vs. pro-black) formed more negative impressions of the black person (experiment 1), adopted more negative racial stereotypes (experiment 2), and demonstrated greater anti-black bias themselves (experiment 3). participants only demonstrated increased bias when they knew that a black person was the target (vs. white; experiment 4). results suggest that nonverbal expressions of racial bias affect more than simply the actor and target—they affect passive, naïve observers. the good news, however, is that the same is true of pro-black bias. implications for organizations are discussed.we propose and test a theory explaining how and why decision makers engage in attractiveness discrimination in selection decisions. we integrate status generalization with interdependence theories and contextualize attractiveness discrimination within interdependent relationships among decision makers and candidates. drawing on status generalization theory, we propose that decision makers associate attractiveness with competence in male but not in female candidates. we then draw on interdependence theory to propose that cooperative and competitive interdependence result in opposing patterns of attractiveness discrimination. when decision makers expect to cooperate with the candidate, they perceive attractive male candidates as more capable cooperators and discriminate in their favor. when decision makers expect to compete with the candidate, they perceive attractive male candidates as more capable competitors, and discriminate against them. four studies, using different samples, selection tasks, manipulations of candidate attractiveness, and manipulations of interdependence, found evidence consistent with the theory.impression management research suggests variability in the effectiveness of self-promotion: audiences grant self-promoters more status in some situations than others. we propose that self-promotion effectiveness depends on the audience's cognitive resources. when audiences are cognitively busy, they are more likely to misattribute the source of promoting information, and thus fail to penalize self-promoters for violating norms of politeness and modesty. thus, self-promoters are perceived as more communal, and granted more status, when audiences are cognitively busy. these predictions were supported across two experiments, which varied the source of the promoting information about a target (self vs. other, experiment 1), and the level of self-promotion (experiment 2), and used different manipulations of cognitive busyness — divided mental attention (experiment 1) and time pressure (experiment 2). these studies provide insight into the conditions under which self-promotion is effective vs. ineffective, and contribute to our theoretical understanding of status judgments.research on gender and workplace decision-making tends to address either supply-side disparities between men’s and women’s human and social capital, or demand-side differences in the status expectations of women and men workers. in addition, this work often relies on causal inferences drawn from empirical data collected on worker characteristics and their workplace outcomes. in this study, we demonstrate how tangible education and work history credentials – typically associated with supply-side characteristics – work in tandem with cultural beliefs about gender to influence the evaluative process that underlies venture capital decisions made in high-growth, high-tech entrepreneurship. using an experimental design, we simulate funding decisions by venture capitalists (vcs) for men and women entrepreneurs that differ in technical background and the presence of important social ties. we demonstrate the presence of two distinct aspects of vcs’ evaluation: that of the venture and that of the entrepreneur, and find that the gender of the entrepreneur influences evaluations most when the person, rather than the venture, is the target of evaluation. technical background qualifications moderate the influence of gendered expectations, and women receive more of a payoff than men from having a close contact to the evaluating vc. we discuss the implications for future research on gender and work.given that racial stereotypes often influence leader appraisals, many businesses assume consumers will respond unfavorably to black leaders. recent research, however, suggests observers may suppress negative stereotypes of black leaders when they head high-performing organizations. we integrate theory on implicit leadership and motivated social cognition to better understand how leader stereotype application and suppression influence consumer purchasing behavior. across archival studies, a classroom exercise, and an experiment, we found that customers (real and prospective) appraised black leaders less favorably than white leaders, resulting in lower patronage only when motivated to view leaders stereotypically. namely, significant consumer bias against companies with black leaders emerged only when organizational failure was accompanied by (a) unfamiliarity with the leader(s) in question, (b) greater societal acceptance of racist behavior (i.e., in the past), or (c) high consumer desire to bask-in-reflected-glory of an organization.the incidence of obesity in the united states has tripled over the past fifty years, posing significant challenges for organizations. we build on stereotype content research and offer an overarching framework to understand individuals’ affective, cognitive, and behavioral responses to obesity. across five studies, we demonstrate that individuals associate obesity with perceptions of low competence. perceptions of low competence predict affective (disgust, sympathy) and behavioral (low help, high harm) responses to obesity. consistent with the bias map (cuddy, fiske, & glick, 2007), these discriminatory responses are moderated by perceptions of warmth. we demonstrate that, in some cases, shifting perceptions of warmth is just as effective as losing weight for curtailing discrimination towards the obese. our findings demonstrate that social categorization is labile and we offer prescriptive advice for individuals seeking to change the way others perceive them.military veterans have numerous problems gaining and maintaining jobs in the u.s., and their unemployment rates are consistently higher than nonveterans (bureau of labor statistics 2013). despite these problems, little theory and research in human resource management (hrm) has focused on understanding the factors affecting hiring decisions about military veterans (e.g., bordieri & drehmer, 1984). thus, the present paper modified an existing model of the treatment of persons with disabilities (stone & colella, 1996) to explain the issues that influence selection decisions about veterans. we also offered hypotheses to guide future research on the topic. our modified model indicated that the (a) attributes of the veteran, (b) the characteristics of the observer, (c) the nature of the job, (d) the perceived transferability of skills from military to civilian jobs, and (e) the differences between military and civilian organizational cultures influence hiring decisions about veterans. we believe that an increased understanding of these selection decisions will help organizations utilize the many talents and skills that veterans bring to the workforce, and enable veterans to enjoy a more fulfilling work life and career.we investigate the effect of mobility of r&d workers on the total patenting activity of their employers. our study documents how mobile workers affect the patenting activity of the firm they join and the firm they leave. the effect of labor mobility is strongest if workers join from patent-active firms. we also find evidence of a positive feedback effect on the former employer's patenting from workers who have left for another patent-active firm. summing up the effects of joining and leaving workers, we show that labor mobility increases the total innovative activity of the new and the old employer. our study which is based on the population of r&d active danish firms observed between 1999 and 2004 thus provides firm-level support for the notion that labor mobility stimulates overall innovation of a country or region due to knowledge transfer.this paper investigates how the strength and intrinsic characteristics of firms’ knowledge bases and processing routines have evolved with the past inflow of employees. the empirical analysis is based on linked public register and innovation survey data for norway. it finds that recruitment from universities, research institutes and higher education institutions has increased the capacity of firms to generate technical inventions. yet, the organizational knowledge bases and processing routines on which commercial innovation output depends have been strengthened only by the recruitment that has occurred from related industries. implications for research, management and policy are drawn.this paper investigates the use of the fuzzy ahp-topsis method to the problem of human resource selection. results are reported on the application of this hybrid method to the case of manager selection process in a prominent telecommunication company in indonesia which has a robust human resource management process, including for assigning its employees to different roles in the company. however, our experiments results seem to indicate that although there is a set of commonly known values in the company, the process of manager selection might not strictly adhere to these values. emphasis on the evaluation aspects shows some variation in different regions, indicating that local values might also influence the selection process.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.lay understandings reflect the lived experience of racism, and our knowledge of these considerations assist with enhancing an appreciation of intergroup relations. drawing on data from semi-structured interviews and focus groups with 30 school attendees from diverse backgrounds aged 14–22 years, conducted from december 2011 to january 2012 in victoria, australia, we critically examined their understandings of and experiences with racism. data demonstrate the ambiguity of racism, while confirming that australian youth from various racial, ethnic, cultural, and religious backgrounds consistently conceptualise, explain, and classify racism, whilst minimising some forms of racism, including racist humour. participants described racism through three primary domains: (a) group versus individual: racism stems from perceived differences, with individuals stereotyped as belonging to larger groups; (b) actions versus beliefs: individuals are classified as racist or non-racist according to their actions and beliefs; and (c) exceptions, exclusions and minimisation: racism is frequently excused and minimised. the present research highlights the need for additional exploration of the nuances of racism in australia from lay perspectives and provides clear evidence of the need to address racism in australian society. further developing the evidence base to understand the lived experience of racism in australia could inform and support the design and evaluation of anti-racism and pro-diversity initiatives. moreover, we hope that the present data can be drawn upon to enlighten the development of instruments to more accurately measure racist attitudes in australian youth.women's relatively worse performance in negotiation is often cited as an explanation for gender differences in advancement and pay within organizations. we review key findings from the past twenty years of research on gender differences in negotiation. women do underperform relative to men in negotiation, but only under limited circumstances, which means the performance gap is unlikely due to lesser skills on their part. the barriers between women and negotiation excellence are of three types: cognitive, motivational, and paradigmatic. cognitive barriers stem from negative stereotypes about women's negotiating abilities. motivational barriers stem from desire to prevent women negotiators from excelling in a masculine domain. paradigmatic barriers stem from how negotiation is currently studied. we call for greater attention to motivational barriers and for changes to the negotiation paradigm. women negotiators are not incompetent, and training them to negotiate more like men is not obviously the solution. in fact, women have greater concern for others than men do, and their cooperativeness elevates collective intelligence and enables ethical behavior. under a new paradigm of negotiation, the value of these strengths could become more readily apparent. in particular, we advocate for greater attention to long-term relationships, subjective value, and relational capital, all of which may have important economic implications in real world negotiations.almost all academic literature across disciplines and most of the news media explain racial inequality as the result of the discrimination and racism of whites toward nonwhites. in contrast, i argue that it is the favoritism or advantages that whites provide to other whites that is the primary mechanism by which racial inequality is reproduced in the post-civil rights period in the u.s. i provide evidence for my argument with data at the individual, organizational, and societal levels. i also discuss how my argument accords with management theory about diversity and inequality, considering the literature on anti-racism, implicit or unconscious bias, micro-inequities (or micro-aggressions), the need for mentors, and white privilege. i end with a discussion of objections that might be raised with regard to my framing of racial inequality as the result of whites providing advantages to other whites, including concerns about egregious negative acts toward nonwhites. overall, i argue that my argument that favoritism takes precedence over racism and discrimination is consistent with the research evidence in the field.